Attention, mock listeners and Phoenix, experience our stories live in a competition, unlike any other.
Join us for our Grand Slam storytelling showdown on September 17th at Tempe Center for the Arts.
Our Grand Slam features 10 storytellers competing to be Phoenix's story champion.
Share some laughs, gabs, and tears with your local community.
Tickets are selling fast, so get your tickets at the moth.org slash Phoenix.
That's the moth.org slash Phoenix.
What does the confidence smile say to you?
And maybe more importantly, what does it say about you?
With small generation, it says you're taking care of more than just your teeth.
Because confidence doesn't just start and stop at a bright smile.
It's about your whole body wellness.
Because oral health issues have been linked to heart disease, diabetes, and even cognitive conditions.
When you care for your smile, you're investing in your future.
With small generation trusted providers, you're not just another patient, you're a partner.
Small generation empires you to understand the connection between your mouth and your overall health.
So you can stop issues before they start.
Here's your chance to take the first step.
Small generation is offering a $59 new patient special.
That's a comprehensive exam, cleaning, and x-rays, a $290 value.
New patient's only.
Offer not valid for tri-care or Medicare advantage.
Maybe covered by insurance, subject to plan restrictions.
Book by December 31st, 2025.
Visit smallgeneration.com slash moth for full terms and to book now.
Let's talk about something I've been obsessed with lately.
Growns new limited edition raspberry lemonade flavor.
It's only available through August, and it's the perfect summer upgrade to your wellness routine.
You can toss a pack in your beach bag, carry on, or wherever your summer takes you.
They're snackable, packable, and perfect on the go.
Being healthy this summer has never been more convenient or tasted better.
These are eight daily gummies that combine your greens,
prebiotics, essential vitamins, and minerals, and over 60-hole food ingredients into one easy
tasty habit.
Personally, Growns has changed the game for me.
I feel more energized, less sluggish, and I never forget to take them because I want to take them.
Growns is vegan, gluten-free, dairy-free, nut-free, and has no artificial colors or flavors.
Growns ingredients are backed by over 35,000 research publications.
You're not guessing, you're getting results.
Grab your limited edition raspberry lemonade groans, get up to 52% off, use the code, moth.
Welcome to the moth. I'm Sarah Austin, Janice.
Summer has us thinking about travel, about vacations, beach trips, barbecues, and picnics,
starry nights, and the great outdoors, and exploring other countries.
I'm also thinking about what makes travel special. It's not just about the places you visit,
but the people you visit, and the people you travel with.
So in this episode, two stories about trips and sojourns in which the meaning and memories are made
because of friends and family. Caroline Connelly is our first storyteller. She told this at a Boston
Grandslam, the show that spilled with past winters of our open-mic stories names. Here's Caroline.
Love it the moth. I spent the summer of my freshman year in college,
living with my then 75-year-old grandmother in Boca Ratone, Florida.
If you don't know Boca Ratone, it is a place with a lot of 75-year-olds.
That's what my grandmother told me when I called to ask if I could stay with her while I was
interning at a company nearby. My grandmother goes by Lala in our family because we couldn't
pronounce Abuela when we were little, and she is the ultimate Cuban matriarch, a fourth-grade teacher
who raised four kids, some of her nine grandkids, and never left the house without lipstick earrings,
and should you ever need it at least five packets of splendour in her purse.
It's worth noting that Lala is begrudgingly a diabetic, and by begrudgingly I mean,
she just doesn't feel like being one. That's really the best way I can describe it, and
that's summer she had been directed to change her diet and do something that absolutely horrified her
exercise. Because I was there and became my responsibility to oversee all of this.
So we established a routine. I would wake up early in the morning and make us two cups of coffee
boostello. I would take mine black, and Lala would take hers with milk, and a huge
fistful of cornflakes that she would cram into the mug every day. This is a recipe she
concocted to quote, trick the blood sugar level test. Now, I was a communications major in college,
so I wasn't like questioning her science, and the levels for the most part seemed fine.
We would take our coffee out onto her back patio table where there was a small pool, and
we would just chat about life. She would ask me questions that had been troubling her like,
why do so many white women do yoga now? And she would dispense love advice, like
marry someone who you can have a conversation with for the rest of your life. And in the same
breath, do not marry someone who does yoga. And as for the physical activity, Lala had decided
allegedly with her doctor that cleaning around the house and the occasional light stroll were
sufficient forms of cardioactivity. So when I would point out to her, she had an exercise one day,
she would get up from the couch with a smirk on her face, walk over to her kitchen counter
and casually wipe it down. It was Lala's way of saying, go to hell, granddaughter.
And on the weekend to meet our strolling goals, we would drive to the local mall and do laps
inside Nordstrom. And so we would start in the shoe section and then make our way over to cosmetics
and jewelry and eventually work our way to the second floor where they had the higher-end designer
stuff. And we would walk around like two of the most lethargic robbers casing a joint.
And we would reward ourselves for our effort. At night, we would lane her bed side by side,
chowing down on sugar-free wafers, watching a movie from her extensive VHS collection.
And these were films by the way that Lala had bought on sale at big box stores all around Florida
in the 90s. So the genre's ranged from Air Force 1 kind of action to not without my daughter
that controversial Sally Field Film. And this was us week to week and I found myself a single
20-year-old with no friends in the area getting so excited about a sugar-free gelo night in a third
viewing of the first wives club. But several weeks into my visit, Lala wasn't feeling well
one day. Her blood sugar had spiked and we thought it was best she go to the hospital. And so while
she was being driven there, I was asked to look after my then 10-12-year-old male cousins. And
generally speaking, I am somebody who relates more to a 75-year-old than I do a 12-year-old boy
that is true at like every stage of my life. And so when I went outside to check on them,
it was no surprise that things weren't going as planned. They had taken all of Lala's patio furniture
and thrown it into her pool. So her white table and matching white chairs were all underwater.
And by the time she came back from the hospital, I had only managed to drag out one of the chairs.
I was someone after all who had spent the summer exercising at Nordstrom.
And at first, I could not tell what she was feeling. Lala is someone who has always looked just as
shocked by a car crash as she does the discovery that my boyfriend doesn't speak Spanish. And so I
wasn't sure how mad she would be. But as she looked from the pool to her white chair, she started
laughing because the chlorine from the pool had cleaned that chair. It had never looked better.
Lala is now 92 years old and she no longer lives in that house. But I will always remember all the
trips I took there. All the ridiculous funny things she said and all the advice she gave me.
But I will especially remember how we spent the rest of that summer, which was once a week,
we would take our coffee cone litching and cornflakes out onto her patio and we would throw all of
that furniture into the pool because that was exercise.
That was Caroline Conan. Caroline grew up in Massachusetts and spent a decade
reporting for new stations across the country. She lives in Boston with her husband and their dog.
Her grandmother Lala will turn 94 years old this fall. Caroline says Lala now lives with family
who don't on her regularly. And if you're wondering, she still doesn't like yoga.
Speaking of traveling together, last summer I visited my friend Julie and her family in San Diego.
When she picked me up from the airport, she said, you'll be so excited. We are going to be in a
flash mob dance sequence in a movie that's filming, or puppeteers. One of her director friends
needed folks for a dream sequence in her new film and Julie had signed us up. I was thrilled
but I told Julie I was nervous about learning the dance. And honestly, I would love to puppeteer.
So Julie agreed. She relayed the news to the team, but the puppeteers spots were already taken.
We showed up anyway. Julie and I are old friends from theater and we were just happy to be spending
time together. We figured we'd just be extras in this movie and that would be the adventure.
But secretly, I was thinking, this will happen. We will be puppeteers somehow.
So we pulled up to the set location and there's a big pickup truck next to us with.
Bigger than life-sized puppets in the back. These are the kinds of puppets that a human needs to
be inside of to operate. The man next to the truck says, I have one small hand-held puppet left
that needs a puppeteer. Do you know anyone? And I said, I do. I happened to be wearing a blue jump
suit with birds on it and the puppet was a bird of the exact same color. Julie and her daughter
grabbed the wings and led the puppet parade and we joined the professional puppeteers for another
adventure in the history books. For photographic evidence, go to the moff.org. After the break,
we take another trip. Be back in a moment. AutoTrader is powered by auto intelligence. The hyper
personalized way to buy a car. AutoTrader's tools sync with your exact budget and preferences
to tailor the car shopping experience totally to you. Budgeting lets you input your info to see
listings in your price range. Search an inventory helps zero in on your dream car. You can choose
from new or pre-owned, the style of the car and features like engine size, color, all the way down
to whether you want a trailer hitch. Go ahead and get picky. Don't worry about scrolling
endlessly. AutoTrader powered by auto intelligence only shows you vehicles based on what you can
afford and what you want. And pricing shows you which listings are the best deals. So you can feel
like you're winning the negotiation without negotiating. You can even choose how to close the deal
at home, at the dealership, wherever. AutoTrader powered by auto intelligence makes the process
of buying a car less of a process. Try it today. Visit autotrader.com to find your perfect ride.
Today's show is sponsored by Alma. I know I'm not the only one who turns to the internet when
I'm struggling. It feels like there are so many answers from how to learn the ukulele to how
to improve my mental health. But what I've come to realize is that while I can use the internet
to strum a stunted version of levial rows, when it comes to taking care of my mind,
there's no replacement for real human relationships. But even finding a therapist can feel like
an inevitable online black hole. That's why I'm so happy to share that Alma makes it easy to connect
with an experienced therapist, a real person who can listen, understand, and support you through
your specific challenges. You don't have to be stuck with the first available person. Trust me,
it's important to find someone you click with. They can be nice. They can be smart. They can let
you bring your chihuahua true story. But they also have to be someone who really gets you uniquely.
When you browse Alma's online directory, you can filter by the qualities that matter to you.
Then book free 15-minute consultations with the therapist you're interested in seeing. This way,
you can find someone you connect with on a personal level and see real improvements in your mental
health with their support. Better with people, better with Alma. Visit helloalma.com slash
math to get started and schedule a free consultation today. That's helloalma.com slash m-o-t-h.
Welcome back. Marjorie Cohen is our next storyteller. She told this at an open-mic story slam
in Detroit. Here's Marjorie. Love it the mom. I met Ruby first when I represented her in a
wrongful death action. Ruby's mother had died as a result of malpractice at a nursing home.
Her mother had been her best friend and her loss was devastating. Ruby settled the case and she
bought a little house. It was really very close to my own house. Later my own mother passed away
and I called Ruby because I knew that she of all people would understand what it's like for a
daughter to lose a mother that she was so very close to and Ruby was kind and it was a good decision
to talk to her about it. Sometime after that Ruby told me that she had been diagnosed with stage
for breast cancer. I married late. I lived alone for a long time and I liked living alone unless
I was sick and then I didn't like it at all. So I said to Ruby what if I come over and we'll watch
and TV or something. So she and I started watching the first season of Survivor on Wednesday night.
It was a great icebreaker for us as friends. We had lots to to gossip about and talk about,
but the irony that Ruby was fighting for survival was never lost on me. We used to go out to lunch.
I'd take her out to lunch. We talk about everything. We learned so many things. She told me that she
had once gone on a date with Mohamed Ali. She said he was a perfect gentleman and she loved to gamble.
So she had rewards points from the local casino. So she'd take me out to lunch and we'd talk for a
long time. And when she found out that I'd never been to Vegas, she said we are going.
So we made reservations, but Ruby was getting sicker and sicker and I wasn't at all sure that she'd
be able to make the trip. I came to her house one day three weeks before she showed me she had
completely and meticulously packed for this trip three weeks in advance. And when we got on the
plane, she was so sick that she had her head down on the tray the whole time. I was worried sick.
When we got to Vegas and checked in, she perked up and she rented one of those scooters.
And I literally tried it along next to her, down the strip and she showed me everything and it was great.
We were going out to dinner with a friend of mine and Ruby said that she didn't feel well enough to go.
And that we should go and when we came back, we go we had tickets to a Gladys night performance
and the flingo hotel where we were staying. And I thought she's never going to be well enough to go.
Now, I should mention Ruby was a very big woman, tall and large and she but she owned it.
She always dressed beautifully and looked so put together. She was featured in an
article that he tried news about large women who were fashionable and she gave me a few pointers
of that I don't know if I follow. But anyway, so when we come back from the hotel,
I'm from the from dinner, much to my amazement, Ruby is dressed to the night.
Sure, hair, the makeup, the she was gorgeous and because she was handicapped, we had priority seating
in the first row. And Gladys night was phenomenal in the small theater, about the size of this one.
And at one point she leaned forward and acknowledged Ruby and they had a moment.
When we came home, Ruby went right into the hospital and I was with her one day and she said to me,
didn't we have a great time? And I was thinking it was such a stressful time for me.
I'm so glad it was wonderful for her. And one day, a social worker came in and said to Ruby,
who is this? And Ruby said, this is my best friend. And the social worker looked at my face and
she said, are you okay? And I said, no. She said, do you want to talk to me? I said, yes, we went into
her office and I cried and cried, you know, when this started, I was just trying to do what
the Jewish people call them midfives, just trying to be kind to someone. I had no idea
that Ruby's love would touch me to my core and that I would suffer so much pain when I was
losing her, which I did just a couple days later and I stopped and stopped.
So does love hurt? Yes. But if you know someone who's alone and sick,
you could say to them, please let me know if there's anything I can do. You could send the
Maccard that said, thinking of you. But if you call them and say, what if I come over and
will binge watch something on Netflix? You have no idea what you might gain.
That was Marjorie Cohen. Marjorie is a retired trial attorney, a recovering video game enthusiast,
adult fan of Lego and surrogate grandma to several sweet kitties. She began telling stories
that the math two years ago, since in retirement, she, quote, missed running her mouth in
front of an audience. That's it for this episode. From all of us here at the math, wherever you go
this summer and whoever you go with, we hope you have a wonderful trip. Sarah Austin Genes is a director,
the most executive producer, and a co-author of the best selling, how to tell a story.
The essential guy to memorable storytelling from the math, which is available now, wherever you
get your books. Caroline Connelly's story was coached by Mac Bowles. This episode of the
math podcast was produced by Sarah Austin Genes, Sarah Jane Johnson and me, Mark Salinger.
The rest of the most leadership team includes Sarah Haberman, Christine Norman, Marina Cluchay,
Jennifer Hickson, Jordan Cardinalay, Kate Tellers, Suzanne Rest, and Patricia Orenya.
The math podcast is presented by Odyssey, special thanks to their executive producer Leah Riesstennis.
All math stories are true as remembered by their storytellers. For more about our podcast,
information on pitching your own story and everything else, go to our website, themouth.org.
Cox Internet has the fast reliable speeds you're looking for, perfect for seamless streaming,
gaming, and working from home. And now get Cox 300 May Internet for only $40 a month
when you add Cox Mobile, with a two-year plan price lock guarantee and Wi-Fi equipment included.
So get your household up to speed, switch to Cox Internet today.
Requires Cox Mobile Gig Unlimited Mobile Davis speeds reduced after 20 gigs usage from
month taxes and fees excluded from price guarantee.