Attention Moth listeners in Phoenix, experience our stories live in a competition unlike any other.
Join us for our Grand Slam storytelling showdown on September 17th at Tempe Center for the Arts.
Our Grand Slam features 10 storytellers competing to be Phoenix's story champion.
Share some laughs, gasps, and tears with your local community. Tickets are selling fast so get
your tickets at themoth.org slash phoenix. That's themoth.org slash phoenix.
What does a confident smile say to you? And maybe more importantly, what does it say about you?
With smile generation, it says you're taking care of more than just your teeth.
Because confidence doesn't just start and stop at a bright smile. It's about your whole body wellness.
Because oral health issues have been linked to heart disease, diabetes, and even cognitive
conditions. When you care for your smile, you're investing in your future. With small generation
trusted providers, you're not just another patient, you're a partner. Small generation empowers you to
understand the connection between your mouth and your overall health. So you can stop issues before
they start. Here's your chance to take the first step. Small generation is offering a $59 new
patient special. That's a comprehensive exam, cleaning, and x-rays at $290 value. New patients
only. Offer not valid for TRICARE or Medicare Advantage. May be covered by insurance subject
to plan restrictions. Book by December 31st, 2025. Visit smilegeneration.com slash moth for
full terms and to book now. Let's talk about something I've been obsessed with lately.
Groon's new limited edition raspberry lemonade flavor. It's only available through August and
it's the perfect summer upgrade to your wellness routine. You can toss a pack in your beach bag,
carry on, or wherever your summer takes you. They're snackable, packable, and perfect on the go.
Being healthy this summer has never been more convenient or tasted better. These are eight
daily gummies that combine your greens, prebiotics, essential vitamins and minerals, and over 60
whole food ingredients into one easy tasty habit. Personally, Groon's has changed the game for me.
I feel more energized, less sluggish, and I never forget to take them because I want to take them.
Groon's is vegan, gluten-free, dairy-free, nut-free, and has no artificial colors or flavors.
Groon's ingredients are backed by over 35,000 research publications. You're not guessing.
You're getting results. Grab your limited edition raspberry lemonade Groon's. Get up to 52% off.
Use the code moth.
Welcome to The Moth. I'm Sarah Austin-Ginness. Summer has us thinking about travel,
about vacations, beach trips, barbecues and picnics, starry nights in the great outdoors,
and exploring other countries. I'm also thinking about what makes travel special.
It's not just about the places you visit, but the people you visit and the people you travel with.
So in this episode, two stories about trips and sojourns in which the meaning and memories
are made because of friends and family. Caroline Connolly is our first storyteller. She told this
at a Boston Grand Slam, the show that's filled with past winners of our open mic story slams.
Here's Caroline live at The Moth. I spent the summer of my freshman year in college
living with my then 75 year old grandmother in Boca Raton, Florida. If you don't know Boca Raton,
it is a place with a lot of 75 year olds. That's what my grandmother told me when I called to ask
if I could stay with her while I was interning at a company nearby. Now my grandmother goes by Lala
in our family because we couldn't pronounce Abuela when we were little and she is the ultimate Cuban
matriarch, a fourth grade teacher who raised four kids, some of her nine grandkids and never left
the house without lipstick, earrings and should you ever need it, at least five packets of Splenda
in her purse. It's worth noting that Lala is begrudgingly a diabetic and by begrudgingly,
I mean, she just doesn't feel like being one. That's really the best way I can describe her
she just doesn't feel like being one. That's really the best way I can describe it and
that summer she had been directed to change her diet and do something that absolutely horrified her
exercise and because I was there, it became my responsibility to oversee all of this. So
we established a routine. I would wake up early in the morning and make us two cups of Cafe Bustelo.
I would take mine black and Lala would take hers with milk and a huge fistful of corn flakes that
she would cram into the mug every day. This is a recipe she concocted to quote trick the blood
sugar level test. Now I was a communications major in college so I wasn't like questioning her science
and the levels for the most part seemed fine. We would take our coffee out onto her back patio
table where there was a small pool and we would just chat about life. She would ask me questions
that had been troubling her like why do so many white women do yoga now
and she would dispense love advice like marry someone who you can have a conversation with
for the rest of your life and in the same breath do not marry someone who does yoga
and as for the physical activity Lala had decided allegedly with her doctor that cleaning around
the house and the occasional light stroll were sufficient forms of cardio activity.
So when I would point out to her she had an exercise one day she would get up from the couch
with a smirk on her face walk over to her kitchen counter and casually wipe it down.
It was Lala's way of saying go to hell granddaughter and on the weekend to meet our
strolling goals we would drive to the local mall and do laps inside Nordstrom and so we would start
in the shoe section and then make our way over to cosmetics and jewelry and eventually work our way
to the second floor where they had the higher end designer stuff and we would walk around like two
of the most lethargic robbers casing a joint and we would reward ourselves for our effort. At night
we would lay in her bed side by side chowing down on sugar-free wafers watching a movie from her
extensive VHS collection and these were films by the way that Lala had bought on sale at big box
stores all around Florida in the 90s. So the genres ranged from Air Force One kind of action
to Not Without My Daughter that controversial Sally Field film and this was us week to week and I
found myself a single 20 year old with no friends in the area getting so excited about a sugar-free
jello night and a third viewing of the first wives club but several weeks into my visit
Lala wasn't feeling well one day her blood sugar had spiked and we thought it was best she go to
the hospital and so while she was being driven there I was asked to look out after my then 10
to 12 year old male cousins and generally speaking I am somebody who relates more to a 75 year old
than I do a 12 year old boy and that is true at like every stage of my life and so when I went
outside to check on them it was no surprise that things weren't going as planned they had taken
all of Lala's patio furniture and thrown it into her pool so her white table and matching white
chairs were all underwater and by the time she came back from the hospital I had only managed
to drag out one of the chairs I was someone after all who had spent the summer exercising
at Nordstrom and at first I could not tell what she was feeling Lala is someone who has always
looked just as shocked by a car crash as she does the discovery that my boyfriend doesn't speak
Spanish and so I wasn't sure how mad she would be but as she looked from the pool to her white chair
she started laughing because the chlorine from the pool had cleaned that chair
it had never looked better Lala is now 92 years old and she no longer lives in that house
but I will always remember all the trips I took there all the ridiculous funny things she said
and all the advice she gave me but I will especially remember how we spent the rest
of that summer which was once a week we would take our cafe con leche and corn flakes out onto
her patio and we would throw all of that furniture into the pool because that was exercise
guys
that was Caroline Connelly Caroline grew up in Massachusetts and spent a decade reporting
for news stations across the country she lives in Boston with her husband and their dog her
grandmother Lala will turn 94 years old this fall Caroline says Lala now lives with family who
dote on her regularly and if you're wondering she still doesn't like yoga speaking of traveling
together last summer I visited my friend Julie and her family in San Diego when she picked me
up from the airport she said you'll be so excited we are going to be in a flash mob dance sequence
in a movie that's filming or puppeteers one of her director friends needed folks for a dream
sequence in her new film and Julie had signed us up I was thrilled but I told Julie I was nervous
about learning the dance and honestly I would love to puppeteer so Julie agreed she relayed the
news to the team but the puppeteer spots were already taken we showed up anyway Julie and I
are old friends from theater and we were just happy to be spending time together we figured we'd just
be extras in this movie and that would be the adventure but secretly I was thinking this will
happen we will be puppeteers somehow so we pulled up to the set location and there's a big pickup
truck next to us with bigger than life-size puppets in the back these are the kinds of puppets
that a human needs to be inside of to operate the man next to the truck says I have one small
handheld puppet left that needs a puppeteer do you know anyone and I said I do I happen to be
wearing a blue jumpsuit with birds on it and the puppet was a bird of the exact same color Julie
and her daughter grabbed the wings and led the puppet parade and we joined the professional
puppeteers for another adventure in the history books for photographic evidence go to the moth
org after the break we take another trip be back in a moment auto trader is powered by auto
intelligence the hyper personalized way to buy a car auto traders tools sync with your exact budget
and preferences to tailor the car shopping experience totally to you budgeting lets you
input your info to see listings in your price range search an inventory helps zero in on your
dream car you can choose from new or pre-owned the style of the car and features like engine size
color all the way down to whether you want a trailer hitch go ahead and get picky don't worry
about scrolling endlessly auto trader powered by auto intelligence only shows you vehicles based on
what you can afford and what you want and pricing shows you which listings are the best deals so you
can feel like you're winning the negotiation without negotiating you can even choose how to
close the deal at home at the dealership wherever auto trader powered by auto intelligence makes the
process of buying a car less of a process try it today visit autotrader.com to find your perfect
ride today's show is sponsored by alma i know i'm not the only one who turns to the internet when
i'm struggling it feels like there are so many answers from how to learn the ukulele to how to
improve my mental health but what i've come to realize is that while i can use the internet to
strum a stunted version of la vie en rose when it comes to taking care of my mind there's no replacement
for real human relationships but even finding a therapist can feel like an inevitable online black
hole that's why i'm so happy to share that alma makes it easy to connect with an experienced
therapist a real person who can listen understand and support you through your specific challenges
you don't have to be stuck with the first available person trust me it's important to
find someone you click with they can be nice they can be smart they can let you bring your chihuahua
true story but they also have to be someone who really gets you uniquely when you browse alma's
online directory you can filter by the qualities that matter to you then book free 15-minute
consultations with the therapists you're interested in seeing this way you can find someone you
connect with on a personal level and see real improvements in your mental health with their
support better with people better with alma visit hello alma.com moth to get started and schedule a
free consultation today that's hello alma.com moth
welcome back marjorie cohen is our next storyteller
she told this at an open mic story slam in detroit here's marjorie live at the mall
I met ruby first when I represented her in a wrongful death action ruby's mother had died as a result
of malpractice at a nursing home her mother had been her best friend and her loss was devastating
uh ruby settled the case and she bought a little house it was really very close to my own house
it was really very close to my own house later my own mother passed away and I called ruby
because I knew that she of all people would understand what it's like for a daughter to
lose a mother that she was so very close to and ruby was kind and it was a good decision
to talk to her about it sometime after that ruby told me that she had been diagnosed with
stage four breast cancer you know I was I married late I lived alone for a long time
and I liked living alone unless I was sick and then I didn't like it at all so I said to ruby
what if I come over and we'll watch some tv or something so she and I started watching the first
season of survivor on wednesday nights it was a great icebreaker for us as friends you know we
had lots to get to gossip about and talk about but the irony that ruby was fighting for survival
was never lost on me we used to go out to lunch I'd take her out to lunch we'd talk about everything
we learned so many things she told me that she had once gone on a date with mohammed ali
she said he was a perfect gentleman and she loved to gamble so she had rewards points from the local
casino so she'd take me out to lunch and we'd talk for a long time and when she found out that
I'd never been to Vegas she said we are going so we made reservations but ruby was getting
sicker and sicker and I wasn't at all sure that she'd be able to make the trip I came to her host
one day three weeks before she showed me she had completely and meticulously packed for this trip
three weeks in advance and when we got on the plane she was so sick that she had her head down
on the tray the whole time I was worried sick when we got to Vegas and checked in she perked up
and she rented one of those scooters and I literally trot trotted along next to her down
the strip and she showed me everything and it was great we were going out to dinner with a friend of
mine and ruby said that she didn't well feel well enough to go and that we should go and when we
came back we'd go we had tickets to a Gladys Knight performance in our in the flamingo hotel
where we were staying and I thought she's never going to be well enough to go now I should mention
ruby was a very big woman tall and large and she but she owned it she always dressed beautifully
and looked so put together she was featured in an article in the Detroit news about large women who
were fashionable and she gave me a few pointers that I don't know if I follow but
anyway so when we come back from the hotel from the from dinner much to my amazement
ruby is dressed to the night sure hair the makeup the she was gorgeous and because she
was handicapped we had priority seating in the first row and Gladys Knight was phenomenal in
the small theater about the size of this one and at one point she leaned forward and acknowledged
ruby and they had a moment when we came home ruby went right into the hospital
and I was with her one day and she said to me didn't we have a great time and I was thinking
it was such a stressful time for me I'm so glad it was wonderful for her
and one day a social worker came in and said to ruby who is this and ruby said this is my best
friend and the social work that looked worker looked at my face and she said are you okay and
I said no she said do you want to talk to me I said yes we went into her office and I cried
and cried you know when this started I was just trying to do what the Jewish people call a mitzvah
I was just trying to be kind to someone I had no idea that ruby's love would touch me to my core
and that I would suffer so much pain when I was losing her which I did just a couple days later
and I sobbed and sobbed so does love hurt yes but if you know someone who's alone and sick
you could say to them please let me know if there's anything I can do
you could send them a card that said thinking of you but if you call them and say what if I
come over and we'll binge watch something on Netflix you have no idea what you might gain
me that was marjorie cohen marjorie is a retired trial attorney a recovering video game enthusiast
adult fan of lego and surrogate grandma to several sweet kitties she began telling stories
at the moth two years ago since in retirement she quote missed running her mouth in front
of an audience that's it for this episode from all of us here at the moth wherever you go this
summer and whoever you go with we hope you have a wonderful trip sarah austin jones is a director
the most executive producer and a co-author of the best-selling how to tell a story the essential
guide to memorable storytelling from the moth which is available now wherever you get your books
caroline connelly's story was coached by meg bowles this episode of the moth podcast was
produced by sarah austin jones sarah jane johnson and me mark sullinger the rest of the most
leadership team includes sarah haberman christina norman marina cloutier jennifer hickson jordan
cardinale kate tellers susanne rust and patricia urenia the moth podcast is presented by odyssey
special thanks to their executive producer leah reese dennis all moth stories are true
as remembered by their storytellers for more about our podcast information on
pitching your own story and everything else go to our website the moth.org
need better internet cox internet has the fast reliable speeds you're looking for
perfect for seamless streaming gaming and working from home
and now get cox 300 meg internet for only forty dollars a month when you add cox mobile with a
two-year plan price lock guarantee and wi-fi equipment included so get your household up to
speed switch to cox internet today requires cox mobile gig unlimited mobile data speeds reduced
after 20 gigs usage per month taxes and fees excluded from price guarantee