Mm-hmm.
What's your eating?
The new banana split cookie from A.M.P.m.
all freshly baked with real butter,
with banana chocolate and strawberry flavor.
Ah, that sounds amazing. Can I have a bite?
I'm sorry, but no.
But...
You can't split the banana split.
Not even all?
Not even all.
What if no?
Please?
Mine.
When it's too legit to split,
that's crazy, Vignan's.
Get a three pack for 99 cents with our app.
A.M.P.m.
Too much good stuff.
Plus tax were applicable,
prices of participation may vary
in terms of conditions apply.
This is back story.
I'm Ed Ayers.
This Labor Day,
millions of Americans are headed out to the grill
for one last summer barbecue.
And we'll likely indulge in the national past time
of eating lots of meat.
But in 1946,
the barbecue's wouldn't have been as plentiful.
The price of meat was sky high,
and so were Americans' anxieties.
You have restaurant owners
jumping off the Brooklyn Bridge
because they have no meat to serve their customers.
Today on Backstory,
we're cooking up a history of meat in America
from colonists who reveled in a land of abundance
to the meaning of small game to the nation of Islam.
You need to turn away from anything
that is associated with the slave,
diet, the slave, man-town, and slave regime.
Coming up on Backstory,
a history of meat in America.
Don't go away.
Major funding for Backstories
provided by an anonymous donor,
the National Endowment for the Humanities,
the Joseph and Robert Cornell Memorial Foundation,
and the Arthur Vining Davis Foundations.
From the Virginia Foundation for the Humanities,
this is Backstory,
with the American History Guys.
Welcome to the show.
I'm Brian Bellow, and I'm here with Peter Owneth.
Hey, Brian.
And it airs us with us.
Hello, gentlemen.
Today's show is about meat.
So we're going to kick off the hour
by asking you, our listeners,
to imagine a suburban Labor Day weekend
in the 1950s.
There's likely a manicured lawn
casually dressed neighbors, and of course,
a grill and a dad.
Glowing coals, giant asbestos gloves,
oversized tongs.
This is Lauren Moulds, a librarian
at the University of Virginia Law School.
Smoke,
wafting over the neighbor's fence,
and his adoring family,
waiting for the grill to get just right
for that giant hunk of meat
that's going to go on there in sizzle,
and spit, and taste like Saturday in America.
It's an idyllic image,
and Moulds says it's completely choreographed.
Grilling was an antidote to problems
that psychiatrists and family experts
saw in the American middle class
two decades before in the mid 1930s.
These experts thought fathers
were too absent from the home,
and worried about the development
of American children.
So Moulds says in journals
and magazines across the country
there was a call
for men to have a stronger presence
in family life to balance out
the effects of over mothering
to be a great role model for their children
in order to ensure that their daughters
know who to look for in a man,
and their sons know what a good man is.
But if experts wanted dad
to be around as a manly role model,
he couldn't just rush to a dust pan
and broom.
Household chores were women's work.
Dad needed a space
for distinctly masculine projects.
Moulds says the popular magazines
were a wash with activities for dad
that wouldn't turn him into mom.
In a 1935 article for American magazine,
former heavyweight boxing champion Jack Dempsey
suggested the manly art of cooking
and the key to its manliness?
Well, that was meat.
Well, he's saying basically
that men have an innate ability
to spice up meals, right?
Because men are really good
specialization, men are really good at
fun techniques,
spectacle,
and so he associates men's cooking
with various masculine activities
like boy scouts,
camping, hunting trips.
He says when a man sends
himself to cooking,
he can outdo a woman any day.
And men spar
with every kind of cooking stove
imaginable and put
unexpected uppercuts in ordinary dishes
and make them really knock out fair.
Quite the words Smith
along with being a chef.
One was meat,
always what's for dinner?
I mean,
what is it about meat?
Well, I think meat's the perfect thing, right?
Meat is carnal.
There's something
primal about meat.
About cooking, meat,
harkens back to the cavemen.
It harkens back to cooking
over fires with a group of dudes.
You know,
it's really something that only men can do.
There's a bit of danger to it.
There's a bit of expertise.
So that's why the barbecue
just resonates,
I think I argue with these
with these fathers
because it's not something
that's every day.
It's something that requires
man.
I love you, man.
I love you, too, man.
I love you, too, man.
I love you, too, man.
Sorry.
I tried resist.
Mold says that the grill,
it's a distinctly masculine
domain, really cut fire
in the 1950s.
After the scarcity of the Great Depression
and meat rationing
in World War II.
I think it comes out of
this distinctive postwar
moment based on prosperity
and property, right?
I think the suburbs
are a perfect place
for something like this
to happen because
you have unprecedented
amounts of families
moving out
into the suburbs
and they have
all the space
in the backyard
and they're
need to fill that void
with rituals.
Magazine's like
Esquire
and a growing industry
of cookbooks for men
showcased those rituals.
Mold says
there was another reason
to fire up stakes
in the 1950s.
The Cold War.
Americans were expected
to stand up
to those lean, mean,
communist, with
ferocious capitalist
appetites.
Grilling became part
of American exception
wasm.
Buying the meat
that is part
of that grilling experience
proves that the American way
of life
and consuming meat
is such a distinctive
and important
way of living.
It goes to show
that we live
in a country of marbles
where every place
in the suburb
can have a giant steak
or hot dogs
or hamburgers
every night of the week
and we can do it
in a very gratuitous way.
I don't know how to explain it,
but I think it's a wonderful
celebration
of Americanness
amid
a very uncertain
geopolitical circumstances.
In a way,
the American appetite
for meat is exceptional.
Today, more meat is eaten
per capita in the U.S.
than nearly any country
in the world,
and the tendency goes
back long before the cold war.
And letters home,
immigrants and foreign
travelers as far back
as the 19th century
noted meat centrality
in the American diet.
One sighted
the odd American
practice of eating meat
every day.
Well,
another listed
the three or four
different types of meat
eaten at breakfast alone.
So today on the show
as Americans across the country
ignite the grill
for Labor Day,
we're going to cook up
stories about meat
throughout U.S. history.
We'll learn why
the 1946 election
was called
the beef steak election
and explained by slaughterhouses
went from bustling cities
to the outskirts of town.
We'll even take a tour
around the windy city
mapping the history
of the Chicago hot dog.
But first,
let's take some time to explore
just why Americans eat so much meat.
It's not an easy
question to answer.
Part of it, of course,
is economic.
Americans have more money
to spend.
But the U.S.
still outpaces
the majority of wealthy
countries in meat consumption.
There's a cultural side
to the story
and backstory producer Nina Ernest
is in the studio
to help us explore it.
Hi, guys.
So yes, I've been
looking in some cookbooks
and doing some research
and I've prepared three dishes
from all three centuries
that speak to America's
love affair with meat.
Now, we should say
that Peter is here
only by the magic of technology.
You're on the line
from Maine, right?
Peter?
Yeah, me and my taste buds.
So let's get
to the grip.
What do you got first?
So the first one,
I'm going to dish it out
and you're going to eat it
and then I'll tell you what it is.
I don't like that.
Could we have
a running description
of what this looks like?
It looks like a pie.
Yeah, it looks like a pie.
Oh.
It looks actually very good.
If I see 20 blackbirds coming out of this,
I'm out of here.
Peter, wait, I'm eating at the same time.
Can't I wait for the 20th century?
Yeah, it has carrot
and maybe onion.
I'm just guessing.
Oh, no.
Yeah, it has scales in there.
Oh, no.
I'm not kidding.
Oh, come on.
I don't get paid enough today.
Hey, guys, tell me what it tastes like.
But Peter, it's mushy yet.
Oh, it runshy at the same time.
Yeah, mushy.
I attribute it to the scales.
Yeah, I would say fibrous.
So what, what is it that we're eating?
So this is eel.
Oh.
I knew the scales were fishy.
I knew those scales were fishy.
I cannot believe.
I ate eel.
Only for backstory.
So when the first colonists arrived in New England,
they realized that there was a lot of eel
that it was really bound to fall.
One early colonist was so excited about this
and he wrote this letter back to England.
And he's like, we can take 150 gallons of eel in the night.
It takes no work at all.
We love it.
It's great.
And this matters because eel was already popular in England.
People have been eating there, including as you guys did,
luckily in eel pie.
Yeah.
And so when they came to the quote-unquote new world,
and they found this bound to fall supply of eel,
they realized that this was a land of plenty.
Land of plenty, Peter.
Yeah.
The important thing to keep in mind is the prevalence of famine
throughout the early modern worlds.
And English people weren't immune.
It wasn't until the 18th century that there was something
approaching food security in this period.
Yeah.
And if we're looking at the question of why did Americans eat so much meat
from the very beginning for the European Americans,
the idea could maybe be that they expected
that there would always be more to eat.
They ate a lot of meat and they were bigger as a result.
Funny that you mentioned bigger because we're going to move on to our next meat
from the 19th century.
Okay.
So here it is.
Tell me that's not a body part.
Oh, God.
Tell me what you're seeing, guys.
This kind of looks a little bit like a vertebrae of a mast.
It looks like something.
It looks like something.
It looks like something.
It looks like something.
It looks like something.
It looks like something.
It's like tongue.
So is it a body part or an organ?
This is a lot worse than the eel.
No.
It's.
It's.
I know.
Oh, gelatinous.
Mm.
So we're eating here is buffalo.
Mm.
So what we're eating here is buffalo.
Mm.
Which went from prevalent across the plains to nearly extinct
over the course of the 19th century.
Yeah, but centuries a long time, Nina, in the meantime,
the buffalo stood for really the limitless abundance of the West, right?
We go from the eel to the buffalo, but they're carrying the same story.
There's more here than we could possibly eat.
So have another serving.
And it's not.
It's tough because there were multiple reasons why the buffalo were nearly
exterminated.
Ford's meat wasn't really one of them.
But there is a one part of the buffalo that may be emblematic of our destructive
relationship.
And that is its tongue.
Yes.
I'm too for two.
I got the tongue and I got the scale.
Only you could interpret that as a victory, Brian.
But you ate those two things.
So the thing about bison tongue.
There's stories of buffalo hunters going out and, you know,
killing the buffalo, taking the tongue and leaving everything else.
Wow.
So frontiersman and Huntsman did eat buffalo tongue out west.
But it came across a lot of references that said buffalo tongue was the delicacy
out east in fancy, fancy restaurants.
But it turns out there's actually a little historical evidence to back this up.
So one historian I talked to to explain this discrepancy said that it maybe had to do
with frontier nostalgia.
That once the frontier was quote unquote closing.
People wanted to believe for some reason that buffalo tongue had been a big
fad.
So it's more than just abundance.
It also has to do with what's fashionable in meat.
Whether it's a man's order.
So two things one, my understanding is the buffalo have come back.
And so we did not cause any deprivation of the buffalo.
That's too bad.
Exactly.
And the next thing is that I can't really relax because there's some other piece of meat
over there under a covering.
I need to know what it is.
Yes, we do have one last piece of meat from the 20th century.
Let me grab it.
Well, it looks like a seaweed wrap biscuit with something mealy inside of it.
I think it's rice, isn't it?
I'm touching it.
You're definitely.
Yeah, definitely seals seaweed.
Do you know what it looks like?
And I'm hoping that it is.
I'm hoping that it's spam.
It does have an Asian appearance too.
Yes.
I think this is spam sushi here.
I'm digging in on this one.
So yes, you are right.
A final selection is everyone's favorite canned wartime commodity.
Yes.
So this is called spam musubi.
And it is from Hawaii, but it's a variation of a Japanese dish.
And Hawaii is, I think it's pretty famously famous for its consumption of spam.
They still love spam.
Really?
And one article I read that Hawaiians eat five million pounds of spam every year,
which is a lot of spam.
That's a lot of spam.
The military shipped a lot of spam to Hawaii because there was a large military presence there in lead up to World War II.
So it seems like the mainlanders have moved away from spam, but people in Hawaii still love it.
But there might be a darker side to this story.
The one historian has argued that because a lot of Hawaiians in the lead up to the war were of Japanese descent,
that the territorial government in Hawaii placed a lot of restrictions on their fishing rights.
Basically, so they wouldn't pose a threat to national insecurity, and that really killed the Japanese fishing industry.
And therefore, these people were looking for a source of protein, and they happened to find it in spam.
Nina, a fascinating story.
And if I wasn't so busy stuffing my face with spam right now, I would tell you why it's a very 20th century story.
It's a 20th century story for a couple of reasons.
The first is, while Peter and Ed, deal with centuries where folks roamed across the continent simply harvesting what was there.
Or at least in Ed's case, harvesting parts of that abundance.
The 20th century will be this different.
It's about the intensive production and packaging of meat.
It's about stuffing meat into cans.
It's about things like spam that are kind of unidentifiable.
And the second part of the 20th century was about war.
And that put American soldiers on mass in Hawaii and started eating spam, but they went their own twist to it.
And that's a story of America's global expansion, especially military expansion, a very second half of the 20th century story.
So guys, you've had three delicious meals from across the centuries.
What story do they tell?
Well, Nina, for one thing, I didn't take part in this brilliant meal you guys just had.
Sounds wonderful.
But what strikes me about the early period is that tales of abundance are really told with a sense of wonder,
from people who were used to scarcity or aware that they can't take this for granted.
I mean something to them.
And now, if anything were Americans or in a different world and abundance has different meanings, maybe there's too much of it.
Now today, the problem is that we seem to worry so much about eating too much meat and too many forms.
And a constant obsession is that how do we deal with the problem of abundance?
How do we work it off?
How do we avoid the disease that comes from it?
Really, how do you deal with the after effects of eating so much meat?
I think our predecessors here in American history would be scratching their heads.
It's time for us to take short break, but stay with us.
When we get back, the 1946 election pivots on the media issue of heat.
You're listening to back story. We'll be right back for seconds.
We're back with back story. I'm Ed Ers.
I'm Brian Ballow and I'm Peter Onof.
Today on the show, as Americans fire up their grills for Labor Day barbecues,
we're serving you some choice cuts on the history of meat in America.
We're going to take a moment now to lay out the history behind that shrink wrapped beef and pork in your grocery store.
Consider it the origin story of packaged meat.
It starts in the 19th century, in the decades after the Civil War.
A back then meat didn't just appear in a store.
If you lived in a town or a city, you were keenly aware of how meat got to your stomach.
This is the story of marine ogle.
She says the process of turning a cow into a steak was hardly invisible.
A butcher would herd his purchases through the street until he got to his butcher shop,
which might be a block from your house or behind your kid's schools or right next to your church,
where he would proceed to slaughter the animal,
and then hang the carcass and carve pieces off to sell to his customers,
or if you were a wholesaler and had a larger slaughtering operation,
you would guide your animals through the street,
people running to avoid them, hoping that the animals don't suddenly decide to stamp it,
which happened often.
Yeah. It just doesn't sound much like pepperage farm.
That's it, you know.
No, that's it.
No, not at all.
This was the case, even in bigger cities such as New York.
Where the plaza hotel now stands in Manhattan, there was a huge stockyard.
Up until the 1870s, this was the American meat system.
Most Americans had no access to refrigeration,
and if you wanted meat, it had to be freshly slaughtered.
So every sitting in town had multiple stockyards and the streets teen with cattle, pigs, and sheep.
As America's urban population swelled throughout the 19th century,
the animal population grew too, and it came ever more of a nuisance.
Listen to this angry resident writing them a walkie sitting on the 1860s,
some deaf and ogles book.
There's perhaps nothing more aggravating than to trudge home from work.
Wading through all manner of filth on the sidewalks,
only to find your garden rooted up.
Your evergreen's bitten off and broken,
and hanging laundry yanked to the ground and stained with a marks of muddy, cloven feet.
Enter a man named Gustavus Swift.
Historians consider him the Thomas Edison of meat.
In less than a space of about four years, the guy completely upended.
Decades and decades and decades of the meat production system in the U.S.
It was astonishing to me.
Gustavus Swift begins as a butcher literally taking chopped meat up in a cart around households
in the great Boston area.
This is food historian Roger Horowitz.
And what happens is he starts trying to follow the animal chain back,
how animals arrive at Boston because he's looking for better animals in better prices.
And eventually he follows it back to Chicago.
Swift wanted a more efficient way to sell meat than packing millions of live animals
into real cars in Chicago,
and sending them eastward to be slaughtered.
And he starts to wonder,
is there a way to slaughter them in Chicago,
and then ship the refrigerated meat east,
rather than ship the animal east.
Because if he could do so,
he would be an awful lot cheaper a hit or control over the kinds of animals
that he was selling.
Swift built a fleet of refrigerated real cars.
Cooled by ice from the Great Lakes,
and packed them with sides of beef and pork,
he then sent the meat out east to be sold through a vast network of warehouses,
up and down the east coast.
A custom to freshly slaughtered meat.
Local butchers and shoppers initially turned up their noses.
But his meat is so much cheaper that consumers try it.
They find out that it's actually not that different than meat slaughtered in the cities.
And there isn't really any measurable impact of consumer resistance to his meat.
Over the next few decades,
Swift and a handful of other big industrial meat packers
would produce most of America's meat.
Though the nuisance of urban stockyards and roaming animals disappeared,
Swift's meat empire created a new kind of unease.
Americans had always known whether beef came from,
but they saw the cattle walking to the butcher.
Now the entire process was hidden and mysterious.
In the 1880s and 1890s,
Americans were trying to figure out how to live in this new world they had created.
And it should surprise no one that many people pondered food
because the whole food system,
not just meat, the entire food system was undergoing an enormous transition
because the urban population was growing so quickly.
Suddenly people were getting fruit in the winter in cans
and that fruit had come from California.
I mean, that was seemed like a miracle.
But as with any period of intense change,
there's confusion, there's anger, there's fear.
And it's not a surprise that there were many complaints about the food system.
At the turn of the 20th century,
the federal government's chief chemist Harvey Wiley
began studying industrial meat.
And results were alarming.
He found that meat packing companies routinely sprinkled their beef
with borrassic acid or borracks to keep it from getting slimy during shipment.
Now borracks is an industrial disinfectant.
Good for cleaning floors, not so great for your stomach.
The firms also injected sausage and other processed meats with dyes
to give them that fresh red color.
These dyes are largely taken from the clothing industry.
They're based upon coal tar residues from production.
So essentially, you're introducing coal tar dyes into the food.
Not everybody got sick from them,
but when you have the counterproductive,
you can say you have a problem.
Wiley pushed hard for federal meat inspections
and for mandatory food labels.
And he got a big boost from updancing clear
and idealistic young journalist
who covered the Chicago meat packer strike in 1904.
Sinclair's reporting eventually turned into the best-selling novel
The Jungle.
We talked about the kind of work that they did
and what happened inside the plants and the often horrific conditions
that would happen.
He described rats falling in the mixtures
for sausage meat bay knocked on the floor
and all sorts of pretty appalling conditions.
And later Ronnie said that he aimed for the nation's heart
but instead he hit it in the stomach.
The Jungle caused a national uproar.
Soon after, at the instigation of progressive reformers,
Congress passed the Pure Food and Drug Act
establishing federal regulation of the meat industry.
That regulation improved the system, but didn't change it.
The basic features of the system that swift built,
packaged meat shipped long distances remain.
And so does the unease over what happens
in those remote unseen slaughterhouses.
Only now people are concerned about hormones
and antibiotics instead of poor acts.
But both poor wits and ovals
stressed that returning to an earlier simpler time
isn't so easy.
By the late 19th century American cities
had outgrown their local food systems.
I do think that in general,
the food system became better
if only because there were a whole lot of people
who didn't live on farms.
They needed food and they needed affordable food
because they weren't making a lot of money.
One thing that this food system did was provide
a lot of food for an huge and growing population
of people, many of whom had very low incomes.
In other words, if Americans continue to top the world
in meat consumption,
maybe the US has the meat system.
It's appetite demands.
Previously,
an oral sharezip
went after the protests ordered by clients
that the YouTuber's who only wanted to
come and surf their 48 meno in Germany.
When we get to eat food, we become Vietnamese.
Has used 150 muslim in Africa to....
I was growing ahead of them,
thelair used 500 muslims
to grow them right away from the nursing home.
The pure food and drug act of 1906 wouldn't be the last time that federal government got
involved in the meat business. When the U.S. entered World War II, the Roosevelt Administration
asked Americans to limit their robust consumption of beef so there would be enough to send
overseas for the troops. If not, beef would become scarce and prices would skyrocket.
The administration tasked the Office of Price Administration or OPA to oversee a rationing effort.
This now forgotten federal agency instituted price controls and distributed rationed coupons
to families. Historian make Jacob says that the OPA even had mascots to help motivate Americans
to buy less. A fictional character general max. The idea was to make a general max
max as in the general maximum price control. So the idea was you had to institute prices across the
board. You were just as much of a trader to the patriotic cause. If you went into the butcher shop
and you know the local butcher, you've had this relationship with him for decades. You say,
okay, I'm not going to surrender my coupons. I'll pay you a little bit higher price.
You make a deal. Exactly. Most Americans did follow price controls and during the war,
Jacob says household incomes grew as more citizens pitched into the war effort and as they received
higher wages. So even though families rationed even more Americans could afford to buy beef.
And in fact, the program worked so effectively for something like meat that annual per capita meat
consumption increased for Americans across the board, but especially for those at the lower end
of the income distribution. But the meat industry didn't like the government meddling in consumer
markets. During the war, Packers lobbied to weaken price controls without much success.
So when peace time arrived, the government and the meat industry were primed for battle.
It's a real showdown that you have at the end of World War II. In fact, price controls in
1946 still exist. And you have Harry Truman saying, we need to continue price controls because
there's a great fear if we take them off. Prices are going to soar through the ceiling.
Meanwhile, the meat packing industry now takes its campaign to the next level.
So what do they do? They withdraw their product from market. They basically go on their own strike.
And what you have is the disappearance of meat from markets across the country. So they
make a decision to let their cattle grow fatter in essence and they stop slaughtering. So slaughtering
is down 80% from where it had been a year earlier. And so within a month, you have a doubling
of the price of meat. Wow. And there's this real showdown in a sense of fear and panic of what's
going to happen next. And Americans start to worry that there's going to be a famine. They use
that word even though it's exaggerated. And then there's a real question, what's going to happen
in this contest of wills? So who caves first, Meg? Truman caves first and gets rid of controls.
Because what happens is Americans who are accustomed to eating their 150 pounds of meat a year
and have now had this period in the war where they have all this access to meat are
living and frantic. And so you have headlines that reach, you know, horse meat consumption
storing. You have restaurant owners jumping off the Brooklyn bridge because they have no meat
to serve their customers. You have business really mobilized at this moment running advertisements
in newspapers that say, would you like a roast of beef? And if the answer is yes, then the
idea is you have to support the getting rid of OPA once and for all. Probably one of my favorite
documents that I ever found in the archives is a letter from a housewife to Harry Truman and
all it says is how about some meat? How about some meat? And that really sort of
captured and reflected the country's mentality at that moment. And indeed, October 15th,
Harry Truman decides, okay, you know, we've lost and he gets rid of controls.
Jacob's outline the consequences of this battle. The following month, voters would rush to the
polls in the 1946 midterm elections. Democrats had controlled the White House in both houses of
Congress for more than a decade, but meat was about to change that equation.
You know, Americans do like their meat and they do respond to immediately what's before
them. And this was a central dinner table and pocketbook issue. And some have called the
1946 election, the beef steak election. And what ends up happening, the elections is that Republicans
regain control of Congress that they had not had since before the New Deal. And it's a very
consequential election in which Republicans over Truman's veto are able to pass significant
legislation not only to get rid of controls, but to roll back legislation that had given
organized labor, the right to organize. And so it's a very consequential election, the 1946 election.
Make you a keen observer of American culture. Why did meat play such an important symbolic role
in this battle over government controls versus the private sector? That's a good question. And I
think you do have to look to the larger cultural context here. The greatest sign that America
was indeed the greatest country in the world was that we ate more meat than anybody else.
So when you had the waves of immigration in the late 19th and early 20th century,
meat was really the signifier that the America, what was called at the time, the American standard
of living. That was a phrase that meant something, not just standard of living, but the American
standard of living, meat was a signifier that, indeed, you could be a worker, you could be a labor
in this country, but you were living better than any of your counterpart in the world. So people
when they go to the supermarket, the price of a pound of ground meat is a signifier of how things are
doing.
Make Jacobs teaches history and public affairs in Princeton University. You can read more about
the 1946 beefstake collection in her book, Pocket Book Politics, Economic Citizenship in 20th
century America.
It's time for us to take another break. When we return, why you should never, ever put ketchup on a
Chicago hot dog? You're listening to backstory. We'll be back in a minute.
This is backstory. I'm Peter Rona of Ahmed Ers and I'm Brian Ballet. We're filling our
plates today with stories about meat in American history. Hey Brian Peter, I recently had an
interesting conversation with a food historian, Fred Opie. He teaches at Babson College,
and he's writing a book about cooking and eating small game, you know, possum raccoon rabbit.
Right. And he told me in the 1970s, he discovered that his aunt,
ate small game as a part of her Southern African American heritage. This is game. You can
easily hunt or trap, even find by the side of the road like rabbit. And that was a part of the
soul food movement that had cropped up back in the 1960s. But Opie said that eating small
game was actually quite contentious. And I want to put you a small clip of our conversation.
Certainly there are groups of people who I would call food rebels among African American
community who saw small game as they as a negative. And I'll give you a two-for example,
Dick Gregory, the comedian, saw the whole soul food movement, the consumption and preparation
of that type of food as unhealthy, as as genocide to the black community. Then you have the
leader of the nation as Elijah Muhammad, who started an organization in the 1930s. His
mantra throughout was, you need to turn away from anything that is associated with the slave diet,
the slave mentality, and the slave regime. For many enslaved Africans, they did receive
rations from their masters, but they were forced to continue to hunt small game to supplement their
diet or starve. So for many people, the consumption of small game became associated with slavery.
And therefore to eat like that is to eat like a slave in many people's mind. So I think that's
an important dimension of how we look at small game like possible raccoons, rabbit, etc.
So Fred, as you kind of discovered this part of your heritage, did you think of it as this is
ethnic, this is regional, this is class? Well, I think when you're within your own family or ethnic
community, you do seem to think that this is us and this is symbolic or representative of who we are
and you're proud of it. But as you travel, as you learn, as you read, as you talk to people
outside your community, certainly it's been my case and the process of doing a book tour that
people would ask me questions or come up to me afterwards and say, you know, I'm from Pennsylvania,
we did that too. And that's the thing that was most interesting to me. What I thought was African
American was not. It was rural people, rural societies, people who come from societies where
they regularly hunted as a way of life. So guys, if I'd been a Fred Opie's book talks,
I might have asked him a question about this. So let me share a story with you all and you
helped me figure out what it means, all right? Go for it. So when I was growing up, my grandparents
lived way up in the mountains of North Carolina, a house been built back in the 1860s and they
didn't have a telephone. I was 15 years old and so forth. And sometimes young cousins would bring
girlfriends or boyfriends to visit. But we had this uncle who was an assurant agent over in
Johnson City, Tennessee and he found it deeply amusing to torment both his nephews and nieces
and our guests by pretending with the very straight face that we were getting ready to eat possum or
squirrel. Yeah, but we never did. You knew you were going to eat raccoon all the time. Exactly, you know.
So, you know, it was kind of eye-rolling. Okay, come on, Uncle Ray. We do not need to do this. But
looking back on it, I realized that he was recognizing that somebody coming into that house with
a rested roof and all this restuffling outside might very well be suspecting that they would be
eating raccoon or possum or something. So I don't really know how this fits in on the grid.
Oh, be just sketch for us. Could you help me figure it out? I can't help you at all. And I just don't
do small game. But Peter's a big game either. And I don't mean to see so the lion either.
But Peter represents a century where I know there was a lot of small game and I'm assuming they
ate it. I'm just curious to know whether there were social distinctions between the people who did
and people who didn't. Well, Brian, throughout most of American history, it's very important
what you eat. But most of the time is determined by where you are and what's available. And
you're part of a food system that sense of identifying with a land that, you know, in a
grayery and republic, everybody's a farmer just about what you can produce and what's easily
available and neighboring forests. So that's what you will eat. Now, the real question is who
departs from that standard and a few very rich people? We'll do that because they can afford to
import the breeding cattle from England and have the very best roast beefs that they can over cook
it, of course, so they can be a real English. But I think things have reversed. Now we live in a
world of choice rather than a worldless determined by what's at hand. And as for opportunistic
small game in frontier areas where there's a lot there for the thinking, well,
I think any group of people would do that. There's no ethnic racial class distinction.
So it's trying to think about why my uncle thought that was such a funny thing to do. I think
we were all kind of anxious that people would think that we'd not really move beyond all that. But by
the 1960s and 70s when this was, you know, of course, we could just go the store and buy
whatever we wanted. We wouldn't have to do that even if we weren't rich. And so by this time
we were eating chicken that got in at the supermarket, right? Just like they would have back home,
fixed country style. So there's that. That's the way you put that Peter's great is that
we tend to forget that what we eat is sort of laden with meaning as well as to do with that.
But you know that and it's not always obvious what it means.
If you're much television in the early 1990s, it's a safe bet that at some point you saw these two
commercials. The other way. The thief. It's what's for dinner.
Sitting there on the couch, you probably did not realize the government had a hand in these slogans.
They were the result of something called a checkoff. A checkoff is when the government
mandates agricultural producers to pay a fee on everything they produce. The money goes to a
board of industry leaders and government appointees that put the cash towards research and marketing.
It all goes towards the goal of boosting sales. Remember those singing California raisins?
The got milk campaign or the incredible edible egg. All paid for with checkoff.
Now checkoffs are very much worth the cost for industrial farmers who produce generic goods on a
bulk scale. But for the small farmers who are just scraping by or those who are specializing in a product
that doesn't apply to a slogan, it's a raw deal. Pork is not actually the other white meat for
hog raisers who say rais hogs that produce bacon. This is Sarah Miloff, a historian at the
University of Virginia. She told me that bacon producers still paid a fee. 45 cents are every 100
dollars of hog sold to the board that brought us the other white meat campaign. So in the late 1990s,
a group of smaller pork producers fought back against their industry board, the pork counsel.
All checkoffs contain basically a self-destruct provision whereby if enough producers get together
and present a petition to the Secretary of Agriculture. The Secretary of Agriculture can call a referendum
to take a nationwide vote on whether or not producers want to continue the program.
So in the late 1990s, dissident hog producers do this. The pork counsel hired a DC based firm
whose other clients included Philip Morris to basically see what these producers were up to.
And one of the worst epithets you could call a farmer in rural America is an activist. And so there was
there was a million dollar campaign against this coalition of farmers, smaller scale farmers,
calling them animal welfare activists in the press.
Where did the million dollars come from? I hope it wasn't checkoff money. It was absolutely
grower checkoff money. So in some instances, the hog producers had provided the funds that were
being used to defeat them. Now, in spite of a million dollar campaign to defeat the dissident
farmers, the results of that referendum are astounding in that 53% of producers vote against the
checkoff system. Now, as these results come to light, we have a new administration.
Amits that turn over, the results of the referendum are essentially thrown out in a deal
that the new Secretary of Agriculture and Venoment cuts with the pork producers counsel.
Small meat producers ended up suing the federal government in cases that went all the way to the
Supreme Court in 2005. Supporters of the checkoff, by which we primarily mean the federal
government and lawyers for the USDA who are defending the pork act and the beef act,
invent a new type of argument justifying the checkoff. There argument is that anything that the
checkoff produces, beef, it's what's for dinner, or pork, the other white meat, is in fact
government's speech. So what does that mean for the decision? So what if it's government's speech?
Well, the argument profored by opponents of the checkoff was that they shouldn't have to pay
into the system because the speech that was being promoted, pork, the other white meat,
was in violation of their first amendment rights. I see. So that it was their free speech that was
being interfered with. And so the decision says it's not your speech. This is government speech,
not your speech. Right. So if we view this speech as private speech that is collectively funded,
we might think that growers would have a claim to argue, hey, I don't want to pay this because
it's, it's an opportunity cost for me to engage in this type of speech instead of what I'd really
like to say, which is by triple H ranch, Angus beef, right? But if the speech is not that of a
private individual, if it's not that of an individual grower, it's a speech of the government.
There is no first amendment claim that can be made against the checkoff.
And I gather you think the government shouldn't be in the business of telling us to eat beef.
I think that what checkoff's point up is the ambiguity of an agency like the USDA.
The USDA exists and effectively promotes the interests of certain agricultural producers.
The USDA is also the agency responsible for codifying and promoting federal nutrition guidelines.
In the case of checkoffs, these two are very much at odds.
And just out of curiosity, how effective was beef its what's for dinner or pork the other white
Well, agricultural economists study this question very intensively.
And the results are basically that for each checkoff dollar spent, the industry does see
a pretty good return on its investment. However, that doesn't mean that all producers are receiving
equal benefits from these programs. Hundreds of thousands of hog farmers were unable to survive
in the industry. Many of them blamed the owner's taxation of the checkoff, which itself represented
the industrialization of hog farming. So you're saying that actually help the consolidation of the
industry. Yes. And what you see is the proliferation of checkoffs in an era in which agriculture is
consolidating and more and more producers are going bust in exiting farming.
Sarah my love is a historian at the University of Virginia.
If you're just joining us, this is back story. And today we're exploring America's love affair with meat
throughout our history. We wanted to end the show today by savoring one man's passion for meat.
Chicago-based author and food historian Bruce Craig is written several books on the most iconically
American of meat morsels, the hot dog. The hot dog arrived on American shores in the middle of the
19th century, brought over by German and Eastern European immigrants as the sausage. They slowly
morphed into hot dogs over the following decades with different U.S. cities crafting their own
regional versions. Virginia producer common naughty recently accompanied Craig to a few famous Chicago
spots. Craig now specializes in the Chicago Vienna style hot dog locally manufactured and loaded
with toppings. But he says it was Frankford or style dogs at a legendary New York stand
that first sparked his passion. I remember I can feel it on my body now, the warm sun,
standing at that counter as a little kid asking for a hot dog and like I reaching down and giving
me a Nathan's hot dog. It's just nothing like Scott but it was I can and I can taste it still.
That's the the power of hot dogs in American culture.
So we're going around the corner of Roosevelt Road. Jim's original dates to 1939 but it's
actually an older stand dating from the 20s. The thing about Jim's is they have griddle
dunions which are completely fabulous.
Nice seat. They've given you packets of ketchup but you do not put it on your
what do you do with it for your fries. The reason we hear is because it was on Maxwell Street
which is the home of all beef sausages. German immigration began really heavily after 1848, 1850s,
people who are with sausage culture and they arose sausages as street food after the Civil War after 1865.
We're going over the north branch of the Chicago River and we're coming up to the Vienna beef
factory. It's the way they make all of the Vienna beef sausages. This dates to the 1950s
when they moved from their original Maxwell Street location. So we're looking at an historic artifact.
So sausages think about it. They're pre-cooked. All these hot dogs are pre-cooked in the
factory. They're pre-cortioned. They were already in their casing already cut. So if you're a vendor,
a street vendor, you know what it costs, what your food costs are and what you can charge for it.
And here it is. Don't hear you are in the store and the nice slummy's hanging up.
My name's Tom Pierce. I'm the director of marketing at Vienna beef. I've been here for since 1968.
From time immemorial nobody knew what went into the butcher's grinder. So this is a standard joke in
America that if a German butcher set up shop all the dogs and cats disappeared.
Well I think that if the general concept of sausage is chopped meat mixed into a
batter and stuffed into a casing, that's a broad, broad description of the raw material. You
could use all kinds of things to make that batter. So in some cases maybe you don't want to know
what's in there. At Vienna we use two ingredients. Fresh domestic homemade, which is very,
very high in protein boussinole. We use brisket trimmings, which are very sweet and they carry the flavor.
We protect our recipe incredibly. What is it? It's a little bit of this and a little bit of that.
Sure. Well we're going to Murphy's and it's a classic hotdog stand. The guy owns it
Bill Murphy is a fanatic about a classic Chicago hotdog.
What a lot.
My name is Bill Murphy. I'm the owner of Murphy's Red Hot. It's 1211 in Belmont.
Chicago, Illinois. Bruce is like one of those generals that sits up on a chair. Watches all the
guys down below doing the dirty work and also. I'm in the trenches and they just turned it
them out and I, you know, that's what we do. Hotdog says it's America's Democratic food.
If you go to a hotdog stand you'll see people from every walk of life. Crosses every age group,
every economic level that we have. And this is the beauty of Chicago hotdog stand.
Yeah, these are arts. Okay, so it's pretty mustard on the side.
Cracky, relish on top. Chopped fresh onions. Tomato slices on the side. Pickles peers.
You have that peppers. Yeah, okay. Not you. Thank you.
Think about a hotdog stand owner or a hotdog in some part of the country which has its own
version of a hotdog like a Coney and Detroit. These industrial products are individualized
and they're naturalized into a local food culture. And it's an art.
Aren't these good? Yeah, great. So this gets us subject to why you don't
put ketchup on a hotdog. So the culinary theory is this. If you think about the flavors in a hotdog,
it is sweet sour, spicy. It's soft but snappy. They pickle and the little hot sport pepper
are crunchy. If you think about it, it makes the whole. It makes a culinary whole.
It's supposed to put ketchup on that. It destroys everything because all it is is sweet,
vinegary, goop. Makes the angry. It arranges me. We tell people that if they put ketchup on a hotdog,
they lose their passport. I can't come Chicago.
That's author Bruce Craig. We should cog a bass producer calling me no.
That's going to do it for us today, but you can also find us online. Visit us at
backstoryradio.org. While you're there, help us shape our upcoming episodes. We're working on
shows about Catholics in America, censorship, and U.S. China relations. Leave a comment or
question on the site or send an email to backstory at virginia.edu. We're also on Facebook,
Tumblr, and Twitter. At backstory radio. Whatever you do, don't be a stranger.
Backstories produced by Nina Ernest, Andrew Parsons, Kelly Jones,
Emily Gaddock, Bruce Wallace, and Bridget McCarty. Jamal Miller is her engineer.
Our research intern, who is moving on to continue work on his doctorate in history,
is Henry Winsick. Thanks for all your help and insight, Henry. Special thanks this week to Andrew
Smith, Char Miller, Sandra Oliver, Andrew Eisenberg, Matthew Gibson, and Alfred Twilt at Wild T.
Bison Farm in the Heansville, Virginia, who supplied the Buffalo town. Backstories executive producer
is Andrew Wendom. Major support for backstories is provided by an anonymous donor,
the National Endowment for Humanities, the Joseph and Robert Cornel Memorial Foundation,
and the Arthur Vining Davis Foundation. Additional funding is provided by the tomato fund
cultivating fresh ideas in the arts, the humanities and the environment, and by history channel,
history made every day. Ryan Ballow is professor of history at the University of Virginia.
Peter Oneth is professor of history emeritus at UVA and senior research fellow at Manachello.
At heirs is professor of the humanities and president emeritus at the University of Richmond.
Backstory was created by Andrew Wendom for the Virginia Foundation for the Humanities.
Backstories distributed by PRX, the public radio exchange.
At Cox, we're always a step ahead, like your dog, who barks before the doorbell rings.
Suns' trouble, before there's trouble, like advanced security, that blocks online threats before they
happen, and knows when the peanut butter is hiding medicine. That's why we keep surprises off your
bill. With price lock, the price of your internet and mobile plan won't go up, erupted three years
guaranteed. Right to hurt the lot. Cox, a step ahead, requires at least 500 megabytes per second
speeds in kick and limited mobile taxes and fees excluded for price lock mobile data speeds reduce after 20 gigs.