Attention, Moth listeners in Phoenix! Experience our stories live in a competition unlike any other.
Join us for our Grand Slam Storytelling Showdown on September 17th at Tempe Center for the Arts.
Our Grand Slam features 10 storytellers competing to be Phoenix's Story Champion.
Share some laughs, gasps, and tears with your local community.
Tickets are selling fast, so get your tickets at themoth.org slash phoenix.
That's themoth.org slash phoenix.
What does a confident smile say to you? And maybe, more importantly, what does it say about you?
With Smile Generation, it says you're taking care of more than just your teeth.
Because confidence doesn't just start and stop at a bright smile. It's about your whole body
wellness. Because oral health issues have been linked to heart disease, diabetes, and even
cognitive conditions. When you care for your smile, you're investing in your future.
With Smile Generation trusted providers, you're not just another patient, you're a partner.
Smile Generation empowers you to understand the connection between your mouth and your overall
health. So you can stop issues before they start. Here's your chance to take the first step.
Smile Generation is offering a $59 new patient special. That's a comprehensive exam,
cleaning, and x-rays, a $290 value. New patients only. Offer not valid for
tricare or medicare advantage. May be covered by insurance, subject to plan restrictions.
Let's talk about something I've been obsessed with lately.
Groon's new limited edition raspberry lemonade flavor. It's only available through August and
it's the perfect summer upgrade to your wellness routine. You can toss a pack in your beach bag,
carry on, or wherever your summer takes you. They're snackable, packable, and perfect on the go.
Being healthy this summer has never been more convenient or tasted better.
These are eight daily gummies that combine your greens, prebiotics, essential vitamins,
and minerals, and over 60 whole food ingredients into one easy, tasty habit.
Personally, Groon's has changed the game for me. I feel more energized, less sluggish, and I
never forget to take them because I want to take them. Groon's is vegan, gluten-free, dairy-free,
nut-free, and has no artificial colors or flavors. Groon's ingredients are backed by over 35,000
research publications. You're not guessing. You're getting results. Grab your limited edition
raspberry lemonade Groon's. Get up to 52% off. Use the code Moth.
Welcome to the Moth. I'm Sarah Austin-Geness. Summer has us thinking about travel, about vacations,
beach trips, barbecues, and picnics, starry nights in the great outdoors, and exploring
other countries. I'm also thinking about what makes travel special. It's not just about the places
you visit, but the people you visit and the people you travel with. So in this episode,
two stories about trips and sojourns in which the meaning and memories are made because of friends
and family. Caroline Connolly is our first storyteller. She told this at a Boston Grand Slam,
the show that's filled with past winners of our open mic story slimes. Here's Caroline, live at the Moth.
I spent the summer of my freshman year in college, living with my then-75-year-old grandmother in
Boca Raton, Florida. If you don't know Boca Raton, it is a place with a lot of 75-year-olds.
That's what my grandmother told me when I called to ask if I could stay with her while I was interning
at a company nearby. Now, my grandmother goes by Lala in our family because we couldn't pronounce
Abuela when we were little. And she is the ultimate Cuban matriarch, a fourth-grade teacher who raised
four kids, some of her nine grandkids, and never left the house without lipstick earrings. And should
you ever need it, at least five packets of Splenda in her purse. It's worth noting that Lala is
begrudgingly a diabetic. And by begrudgingly, I mean, she just doesn't feel like being one.
That's really the best way I can describe it. And that summer, she had been directed to change
her diet and do something that absolutely horrified her exercise. And because I was there, it became
my responsibility to oversee all of this. So we established a routine. I would wake up early in
the morning and make us two cups of cafe bustelo. I would take mine black. And Lala would take
hers with milk and a huge fistful of corn flakes that she would cram into the mug every day.
This is a recipe she concocted to, quote, trick the blood sugar level test. Now,
I was a communications major in college, so I wasn't, like, questioning her science. And the
levels for the most part seemed fine. We would take our coffee out onto her back patio table,
where there was a small pool. And we would just chat about life. She would ask me questions that
had been troubling her, like, why do so many white women do yoga now? And she would dispense
love advice, like marry someone who you can have a conversation with for the rest of your life.
And in the same breath, do not marry someone who does yoga.
And as for the physical activity, Lala had decided, allegedly with her doctor,
that cleaning around the house and the occasional light stroll were sufficient forms of cardio
activity. So when I would point out to her, she had an exercise one day. She would get up from
the couch with a smirk on her face, walk over to her kitchen counter and casually wipe it down.
It was Lala's way of saying, go to hell, granddaughter. And on the weekend to meet our
strolling goals, we would drive to the local mall and do laps inside Nordstrom. And so we would start
in the shoes section and then make our way over to cosmetics and jewelry and eventually work our
way to the second floor where they had the higher end designer stuff. And we would walk
around like two of the most lethargic robbers casing a joint. And we would reward ourselves for
our effort. At night, we would lay in her bed side by side, chowing down on sugar-free wafers,
watching a movie from her extensive VHS collection. And these were films, by the way,
that Lala had bought on sale at big box stores all around Florida in the 90s. So the genres
ranged from Air Force One kind of action to Not Without My Daughter, that controversial Sally
Field film. And this was us week to week. And I found myself a single 20-year-old with no friends
in the area getting so excited about a sugar-free jello night and a third viewing of the First
Wives Club. But several weeks into my visit, Lala wasn't feeling well one day. Her blood sugar
had spiked. And we thought it was best she go to the hospital. And so while she was being driven
there, I was asked to look after my then 10 to 12-year-old male cousins. And generally speaking,
I am somebody who relates more to a 75-year-old than I do a 12-year-old boy. That is true at
like every stage of my life. And so when I went outside to check on them, it was no surprise that
things weren't going as planned. They had taken all of Lala's patio furniture and thrown it into
her pool. So her white table and matching white chairs were all underwater. And by the time she
came back from the hospital, I had only managed to drag out one of the chairs. I was someone,
after all, who had spent the summer exercising at Nordstrom. And at first I could not tell
what she was feeling. Lala is someone who has always looked just as shocked by a car crash
as she does the discovery that my boyfriend doesn't speak Spanish. And so I wasn't sure how
mad she would be. But as she looked from the pool to her white chair, she started laughing.
Because the chlorine from the pool had cleaned that chair, it had never looked better.
Lala is now 92 years old. And she no longer lives in that house. But I will always remember
all the trips I took there, all the ridiculous funny things she said, and all the advice she gave
me. But I will especially remember how we spent the rest of that summer, which was once a week,
we would take our cafe con leche and corn flakes out onto her patio, and we would throw all of that
furniture into the pool. Because that was exercise.
That was Caroline Connelly. Caroline grew up in Massachusetts and spent a decade reporting for
news stations across the country. She lives in Boston with her husband and their dog.
Her grandmother Lala will turn 94 years old this fall. Caroline says Lala now lives with family
who don't on her regularly. And if you're wondering, she still doesn't like yoga. Speaking of traveling
together, last summer I visited my friend Julie and her family in San Diego. When she picked me
up from the airport, she said, you'll be so excited. We are going to be in a flash mob dance
sequence in a movie that's filming, or puppeteers. One of her director friends needed folks for a
dream sequence in her new film, and Julie had signed us up. I was thrilled, but I told Julie I was
nervous about learning the dance. And honestly, I would love to puppeteer. So Julie agreed. She
relayed the news to the team, but the puppeteer spots were already taken. We showed up anyway.
Julie and I are old friends from theater, and we were just happy to be spending time together.
We figured we'd just be extras in this movie, and that would be the adventure. But secretly,
I was thinking, this will happen. We will be puppeteers somehow. So we pulled up to the set
location, and there's a big pickup truck next to us with bigger than life-size puppets in the back.
These are the kinds of puppets that a human needs to be inside of to operate. The man next to the
truck says, I have one small handheld puppet left that needs a puppeteer. Do you know anyone?
And I said, I do. I happen to be wearing a blue jumpsuit with birds on it, and the puppet was
a bird of the exact same color. Julie and her daughter grabbed the wings and led the puppet
parade, and we joined the professional puppeteers for another adventure in the history books.
For photographic evidence, go to themoth.org. After the break, we take another trip. Be back in a moment.
AutoTrader is powered by auto intelligence, the hyper-personalized way to buy a car.
AutoTrader's tools sync with your exact budget and preferences to tailor the car shopping experience
totally to you. Budgeting lets you input your info to see listings in your price range.
Search and inventory helps zero in on your dream car. You can choose from new or pre-owned,
the style of the car, and features like engine size, color,
all the way down to whether you want a trailer hitch. Go ahead and get picky.
Don't worry about scrolling endlessly. AutoTrader powered by auto intelligence only shows you vehicles
based on what you can afford and what you want. And pricing shows you which listings are the best
deals. So you can feel like you're winning the negotiation without negotiating. You can even
choose how to close the deal, at home, at the dealership, wherever. AutoTrader powered by
auto intelligence makes the process of buying a car less of a process. Try it today. Visit
AutoTrader.com to find your perfect ride. Today's show is sponsored by Alma. I know I'm not the only
one who turns to the internet when I'm struggling. It feels like there are so many answers from how
to learn the ukulele to how to improve my mental health. But what I've come to realize is that
while I can use the internet to strum a stunted version of Lavian Rose, when it comes to taking
care of my mind, there's no replacement for real human relationships. But even finding a therapist
can feel like an inevitable online black hole. That's why I'm so happy to share that Alma makes
it easy to connect with an experienced therapist, a real person who can listen, understand, and
support you through your specific challenges. You don't have to be stuck with the first available
person. Trust me, it's important to find someone you click with. They can be nice, they can be smart,
they can let you bring your Chihuahua true story, but they also have to be someone who really gets
you uniquely. When you browse Alma's online directory, you can filter by the qualities that
matter to you, then book free 15 minute consultations with the therapists you're interested in seeing.
This way, you can find someone you connect with on a personal level and see real improvements in
your mental health with their support. Better with people, better with Alma. Visit helloalma.com
to get started and schedule a free consultation today. That's helloalma.com slash m-o-t-h.
Welcome back. Marjorie Cohen is our next storyteller. She told this at an open mic
story slam in Detroit. Here's Marjorie live at the mall.
I met Ruby first when I represented her in a wrongful death action. Ruby's mother had died as
a result of malpractice at a nursing home. Her mother had been her best friend and her loss was
devastating. Ruby settled the case and she bought a little house that was really very close to my
own house. Later, my own mother passed away and I called Ruby because I knew that she of all people
would understand what it's like for a daughter to lose a mother that she was so very close to
and Ruby was kind and it was a good decision to talk to her about it.
Sometime after that, Ruby told me that she had been diagnosed with stage four breast cancer.
You know, I was, I married late. I lived alone for a long time and I liked living alone unless I was sick
and then I didn't like it at all. So I said to Ruby, what if I come over and we'll watch some TV or
something? So she and I started watching the first season of Survivor on Wednesday nights.
It was a great icebreaker for us as friends. You know, we had lots to gossip about and talk about
but the irony that Ruby was fighting for survival was never lost on me.
We used to go out to lunch. I'd take her out to lunch. We'd talk about everything. We learned so
many things. She told me that she had once gone on a date with Muhammad Ali. She said he was a
perfect gentleman and she loved to gamble so she had rewards points from the local casino so she'd
take me out to lunch and we'd talk for a long time and when she found out that I'd never been to Vegas,
she said we are going. So we made reservations but Ruby was getting sicker and sicker and I
wasn't at all sure that she'd be able to make the trip. I came to her host one day three weeks
before she showed me she had completely and meticulously packed for this trip three weeks in
advance and when we got on the plane she was so sick that she had her head down on the tray the
whole time. I was worried sick. When we got to Vegas and checked in she perked up and she rented
one of those scooters and I literally trotted along next to her down the strip and she showed
me everything and it was great. We were going out to dinner with a friend of mine and Ruby said
that she didn't feel well enough to go and that we should go and when we came back we had tickets
to a Gladys night performance in the Flamingo hotel where we were staying and I thought she's
never going to be well enough to go. Now I should mention Ruby was a very big woman
tall and large and she but she owned it. She always dressed beautifully and looked so put
together. She was featured in an article in the Detroit News about large women who were fashionable
and she gave me a few pointers that I don't know if I follow but
anyway so when we come back from the hotel uh from the from dinner much to my amazement Ruby
is dressed to the night. Her hair the makeup she was gorgeous and because she was handicapped we
had priority seating in the first row and Gladys night was phenomenal in this small theater about
the size of this one and at one point she leaned forward and acknowledged Ruby and they had a
moment. When we came home Ruby went right into the hospital and I was with her one day and she said to
me didn't we have a great time and I was thinking it was such a stressful time for me I'm so glad
it was wonderful for her and one day a social worker came in and said to Ruby who is this and
Ruby said this is my best friend and the social worker looked at my face and she said are you okay
and I said no she said do you want to talk to me I said yes we went into her office and I cried and
cried you know when this started I was just trying to do what the Jewish people call a mitzvah I was
just trying to be kind to someone I had no idea that Ruby's love would touch me to my core and that
I would suffer so much pain when I was losing her which I did just a couple days later and I sobbed
and sobbed so does love hurt yes but if you know someone who's alone and sick you could say to them
please let me know if there's anything I can do you could send them a card that said thinking of
you but if you call them and say what if I come over and will binge watch something on Netflix
you have no idea what you might gain
that was Marjorie Cohen Marjorie is a retired trial attorney a recovering video game enthusiast
adult fan of lego and surrogate grandma to several sweet kitties she began telling stories at the
moth two years ago since in retirement she quote missed running her mouth in front of an audience
that's it for this episode from all of us here at the moth wherever you go this summer and whoever
you go with we hope you have a wonderful trip sarah austin jeunesse is a director the moss
executive producer and a co-author of the best-selling how to tell a story the essential guide to
memorable storytelling from the moth which is available now wherever you get your books caroline
connelly's story was coached by meg bowls this episode of the moth podcast was produced by
sarah austin jeunesse sarah jane johnson and me mark solinger the rest of the moss leadership team
includes sarah haberman christina norman marina cluchay jennifer hixon jordan cardinale kate
susanne rust and patricia urranya the moth podcast is presented by odyssey special thanks to their
executive producer lea reese denis all moth stories are true as remembered by their storytellers
for more about our podcast information on pitching your own story and everything else
go to our website the moth.org
need better internet cox internet has the fast reliable speeds you're looking for
perfect for seamless streaming gaming and working from home and now get cox 300 meg internet for
only 40 a month when you add cox mobile with a two-year plan price lock guarantee and wi-fi
equipment included so get your household up to speed switch to cox internet today requires cox
mobile gig unlimited mobile data speeds reduced after 20 gigs usage per month taxes and fees excluded
from price guarantee