Conversations with Tyler is produced by the Mercadis Center at George Mason University,
bridging the gap between academic ideas and real-world problems.
Learn more at Mercadis.org.
For a full transcript of every conversation and hands with helpful links, visit conversationswithtiler.com.
Hello everyone and welcome to Conversationswithtiler.
Today I'm chatting with Nate Silver, live in New York.
We are here to commemorate the paperback edition of Nate's On the Edge, The Art of
Risking Everything, a book that last year I described sincerely as absolute fun on every
page.
We're also going to revisit some of our earlier predictions from a year ago and nine years
ago and talk about everything I want to talk about.
Nate, welcome.
Tyler, always a pleasure.
What current margins do you learn anything from studying expected utility theory?
Well, I mean, I probably spend tenth of my time playing poker and certainly in that
respect.
You're quite explicit about calculating things like that, right?
But you're learning new ideas, new theories, new concepts, or you're just applying what
you learned, say, 13 years ago, whenever.
No, I feel it still feels fresh to me.
I mean, I think so when I've talked about the book to people, people kind of understand
the expected value part.
That's like easily explicable to like economics 101 people.
I think the equilibrium part that, you know, solve for the equilibrium is something that
people don't get as much as like what's the equivalent that should emerge given everyone
has their incentives to play this hand optimally, so to speak, right?
Or everyone has different incentives, but they're all being rational in some capacity.
Like that kind of thing, I think about a lot when it comes to even like online discourse
for example, you know, why are people behaving a certain way on Twitter or X for example?
It's a random Nash equilibrium.
Do you take that seriously?
It seems to hold with soccer kicks, right?
But in poker, anything you do, you ever use the concept?
Oh, sure.
No, I will literally randomize sometimes, right?
Well, you look at the tournament clock and it's a high number than you'll bluff, and
it's low number than you'll play more passively, for example.
You can look at the rotation of your chips or things like that.
I mean, look, and you think some of the other people do it too.
Yeah, you can tell there's a certain, look, you see people are like looking up at the clock
and it's like a kind of daydreaming and they're waiting for a number, right?
You can like rotate your cards.
One thing people didn't realize until they actually solved the Nash equilibrium for
poker is how many mixed strategies there are, basically every hand is a mix of some kind,
right?
Yeah, the flip side to that is that if you have any tell or read on your opponent at all,
you move from literal indifference toward a dominant strategy in that context, right?
So I believe actually like reading players, tells, picking up on the moment and how
you are perceived and how your table image shifts a lot.
But no, I mean, poker is gone further than anything else in the literal manifestation
of game theory in real life.
I mean, you also see it in football and things like that.
I'm working on an NFL model now, right?
I wonder if NFL teams are optimally mixing their strategies, for example, but you see it
there, right?
Like a draw play on third and long, right?
Has a higher expected value because it's not expected and because you're supposed to always
pass there, right?
And, you know, economics is amazing in the sense that human, it predicts human behavior.
I think I think fairly well when you have repeated trials and people that have good
feedback and incentive to be optimal.
Your ability to read tells does it help you at all in real life and it's so how?
There's probably some people reading, but it's very specific, right?
It was on the subway getting here, right?
I didn't have a seat on the train.
I was like, oh, that person's going to stand up, I can tell.
And I was wrong, right?
The tells are not always 100% reliable.
Someone wants to learn how to read tells other than just say playing a lot of poker or doing
that thing.
How do they do that?
I think there is not a substitute for for how it correlates to real world scenarios because
it's so kind of contextual and kind of semantic.
So I was at the world series for most of June played in the main event, which is a $10,000
tournament.
And there was a guy who had like a very rapid heartbeat, they could kind of see his,
it's called like the Cartarride, I don't know what it's called, right?
But his heart's beating in his neck.
And so that's obviously often a tell.
However, for some people, they get more nervous when they're bluffing.
Some get more nervous when they have a strong hand, right?
So you have to kind of correlate that with behavior.
And that's contextual, the fact that he was an intermediate player and not a really
good player or a complete novice fish we call him in poker.
So you know, you're building up kind of an implicit database in your head.
I think just by by watching a lot.
And including like watching when you're not involved in a hand in poker,
you're folding and most of them's a poker most of the time.
But like I'm watching people and like kind of like making a little prediction.
Oh, that feels strong something he did, right?
And then, you know, if you're right, 60% of the time, 60% instead of 50,
random, right?
That's a huge edge.
And in gambling, any 55, 45 edges enormous, right?
And 60, 40 or 65, 35 is, we'll make you a very winning player.
And if you're watching an NBA game, is there any meaningful way in which you can read
tells like, oh, look, it has a bad attitude tonight.
I mean, you can tell from the body language of a team sometimes.
I had a fairly good year betting the NBA playoffs and like does the team have it tonight.
I mean, that should be in principle, you know, actionable.
I would think, but you know, you would think that markets might pick up on that.
But yeah, there are things like this team is tired.
They don't have the personnel, right?
Like the, you know, the nuggets in that in that okay, C series.
Like they're a great team.
They beat my expectations.
But like they're not going to be able to keep up with this team for, for four quarters.
But that's not like physical read so much as kind of, again, it's kind of a little bit
of his cultivation and a lot of priors in context.
What was the last interesting thing you learned from the academic, political science, literature?
Oh, boy, is it going to seem like kind of like an insult to, no, no, we're all for
insults here.
I mean, look, I read a lot of sub-stacks and things like that, right?
Right?
Oh, my gosh.
You know, I think that might be the right answer to the clear.
No, look, I think in some ways, you know, what has come out of academic circles
and been interesting?
I mean, I think effective altruism has been interesting.
For example, you know, I mean, certainly critical theory or whatever the origins of
wokeness have had a lot of influence on on the discourse more broadly.
But like, yeah, I don't, I don't really read a lot of journal articles anymore.
It's also a lot of it's gone on on blue sky.
I think, and I can't tolerate blue sky, really.
It's too much of a circle jerk.
I think, and so I think academics have maybe lost influence in that, in that
respect.
Even though I have great experiences talking to academics and I'll do events at
universities a couple of times a year, and they also kind of fall in this track
where like, it's so reflexively anti-Trump, a lot of it, and I'm anti-Trump, right,
in most senses of that term.
But something about it has kind of melted the brains a little bit of like the nuance
and the subtlety and the things that, you know, the slow cooking method of academia,
where you're supposed to take more time with things.
I think it's not always a good match.
You being one of the major exceptions for kind of rapid fire reaction to the new cycle.
If there were a paper, you wish someone would write, is there such a thing?
Something you'd like to know, but you don't know now, and in principle, an academic
could do it.
Yeah, maybe papers is kind of like the wrong part of the of the curve right now.
We're like, yeah, like a sub-stack newsletter that you take a couple of days with,
or a blog post, right, or a book.
I mean, I'm still a big believer in books where you kind of go into a conclusion more
in depth than anyone has before, right, or investigative journalism.
You know, I was just listening on that on the way over to like the Rostouthead podcast
with the woman who kind of helped to break the story of Jeffrey Epstein for the Miami
Harrel, and she's like, this was a major story featuring all types of people that are
extremely well-known and notorious internationally, right?
But people are kind of lazy, right?
And they were not like a lot of reporters really kind of pursuing every detail of that
case.
And so I think that 90% of academic papers were perfectly fine as like blog posts, right, including
the tone of like, okay, I ran some regressions instead of having like Greek symbols and
things like that, and the pretence of all of it.
And you can say what you think, right, just saying that the world sorted out.
Same with you think, and also, you know, one of the things I like about bringing a new
slutters, I can use my tone to say, when am I speculating a little bit more, when I'm
making a joke, what am I being more serious, presenting some original finding and things
like that?
And that can be lost with the, with the dry, sterile tone of a typical academic paper.
So when you think about maximizing expected value, how obsessed should you be with longevity?
I mean, should you be the next Brian Johnson?
Yeah, I mean, I asked myself a lot of these questions, right?
Like, I, I don't know, I think if you kind of hyper optimized for every parameter in your
day, day life and you probably wind up being fairly miserable, I think, yeah, I mean,
I guess it'd be hypocritical if I said I was like terribly concerned about longevity.
I mean, in your 40s, you are kind of both by choice and by force, you kind of are required
to be a little bit more careful about certain things I suppose.
Yeah, I haven't gotten on that on that bandwagon quite as much.
I'm sure I will probably put this into getting three years.
I'll be, I don't know, right?
Some health matters, something but for now, for now, making serious, but incremental improvements,
I guess.
As a better, do you take Pascal's wage, you're seriously?
I take the notion that we're profoundly uncertain about the nature of the universe, seriously, right?
Why not believe, right?
It would seem to maximize expected value.
Just jump right in.
You don't have to say you know the answer, but you would say, well, this is the most likely path I
have for getting to the answer is to start by believing something.
Well, I don't really believe in heaven as such, right?
Or I don't believe in kind of like Pascal's, I mean, I put, you know, p equals point.
Oh, oh, no, I'm p equals one.
But there's some chance, right?
There's some chance, but like, I mean, look, a lot of these problems in, I guess,
called like infinite ethics, you know, you now have a big debate over like shrimp welfare.
Sure, for example.
A lot of them.
And I'm like, we have enough problems that are in the kind of terrestrial tractable
realm, right?
Well, I'm just not going to worry about those things so much.
And I think I think, you know, as thought experiments, they can be helpful and fine, right?
But like, I think if you kind of like, you know, ignore the 1% of edge case, it's probably
good to have some people will McCaskell or whatever, worrying about those things.
There's some people having, like, some influence on that.
But like, I'm trying to kind of move in the realm of the tractable.
I've always been more, you know, poker, you know, what matters is, what hand you have
what matters is the read that you have and, and the theory matters, but like, information
you have that's local and specific and actionable, always predominates that.
So you dismissed Pascal's major, in short, I don't worry about Pascal's major, I guess.
You know, again, as I said, I've evolved toward being more affirmatively kind of agnostic
as opposed to atheists.
I suppose, but that's not because of Pascal's major per se, just because of the
strangeness of the world, you know, I do think that like some of the AI stuff ought to have
people asking a few more questions about the nature of reality.
I suppose.
Yeah.
Now, this plenty of material in your book about people who take a lot of risk.
Subpital is the art of risking everything.
How much do you think people segregate areas of risk taking?
So for instance, people might say, well, Tyler, you travel to some dangerous locations,
but I'm totally afraid to scuba dive.
I feel I'm very strongly segregated either take fair manner risk or close to none at
all.
Is that your model of most humans?
That's pretty normal.
Yeah.
I mean, the example I think I used in the book is, is he killed a manual?
Sure.
Well, you can't go to, you shouldn't go to restaurants because we still have some cobits
like now in 2022, 2023, right?
But he writes a motor cycle, which is like known to be one of the most dangerous things
per mile that you can do.
Yeah, people are aren't usually not super meta-rational about risk, right?
But it should be, like, should you have one general risk attitude?
Is that more meta-rational?
Look, I think things that seem irrational are often kind of rational on a higher plane,
right?
Yeah.
Like, you know, like loss of version, you know, you shouldn't, you know,
I had a pair of headphones stolen from me the other day, right?
And I felt very kind of guilty about that.
We hadn't like the door of our, our car and it was kind of, you know, kind of my fault.
But like, this is in New York in actually not state New York.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You gotta be careful of it, upstate.
Real homothedes, yeah.
Yeah.
But like, and you're like, okay, well, I can afford a new pair of headphones, not
I think a deal.
But like, but if you were chronically sloppy about things like that, then that would cause
more hardship and would be wasteful.
And so like, you know, loss of version, things like that aren't necessarily, I mean,
they come from flawed iterations of rationality that might serve a higher purpose,
or might have served an evolutionary purpose earlier in kind of human civilization.
Can you think of cases as people who have truly integrated attitude toward risk?
That is, they have some level of risk taking, they apply it more or less evenly to all the
things they do.
I mean, look, are those people just in jail?
Yeah, no, I mean, I look, I think some of Silicon Valley has that attitude a little bit.
You know, it tends to be correlated with other things that might be less desirable.
The calculator risk taking part is hard, I think, right?
If you're very successful, I mean, one thing you see when you do play poker is like, people
play very differently when they're on a winning streak.
People play very differently when they're when they're confident.
They usually play better, quite a bit better.
In fact, I'm probably true for like human beings too, but you know, but I've had moments
of my career where I kind of flew way too close to the sun and you stop getting, you
begin getting worse feedback from people that's very, that's very damaging, right?
Where people are sick of psychophantic around you, potentially, where you shut off criticism.
I mean, Elon seems to have this problem a little bit, although Elon at least has kind
of, you know, Elon didn't concede to Trump on tariffs and skilled immigration, things like
that.
So he had some values at least, but that's a very big problem, I think, and you're surrounding
yourself with, with Yesmen.
Why haven't you been to Oklahoma yet?
I'd like to go.
I had designs on, I was hoping the next we're going to play, okay, see, then I'd have
gone for a couple of games there.
It's cheaper to fly to, okay, see, stay in a, in a remada, or something, or maybe even
a nice hotel than to go to masses for garden for playoff games.
I was thinking of trying to see a playoff game in okay, see, not the finals, the tickets
were so cheap.
I was stunned, because I'm used to like Bay Area New York City prices, which I won't
buy at, but I look at them, and then I say, oh, that's too much New York City is kind
of crazy for, I mean, I think one thing people figure it out is like all the kind of high
taste things that like, that rich people really like, like, there's been huge inflation.
This is like the world's tiniest filing problem in like, yeah, high-end like sushi on
Macauzy, for example, right?
I don't do it anymore.
Yeah.
No, it's, it's, you know, or like the US Open used to be something really fun going to the
US Open in, in flushing meadows, right?
You go to like one of the early sessions, you can go like to any of the 17 courts, or
whatever.
You used to be a pretty good deal.
You get in for like 50 bucks.
And now it's like 200 bucks, right, which is kind of the fair price, but like, you know, you
see now Delta using AI tools, surprised discriminating.
That's right, a little bit more, which I think we probably.
That's going to be bad for you.
Yeah, probably.
We should probably have some law.
Although in New York, we have, in New York, we can fly on multiple carriers to almost
everywhere.
No, I think.
But if they all price discriminate using a common algorithm, it's not literally
collusive, but it's in a way like collusion.
Is that legal or not?
You would know more than me.
There are pending court cases.
I'm not sure how they're all being decided, but it will be an increasingly important
issue.
Yeah, I mean, I think there'll be, I think some of this is a short side of the sense
that we'll probably have like a pretty for prom backlash to it.
I would think.
Yeah, I mean, it robs through the wrong way, intuitively.
If you're betting on NBA games or just trying to enjoy them, how much does it help you
do have seen the team live?
Like if you go to see Oklahoma, if you games, do you learn anything?
I mean, given that the edges are pretty small in general in sports betting, you know,
you're probably they're losing by 1% ROI or winning by 1% ROI, then any of that is
is helpful.
I think.
And also sometimes, you know, the markets are a little bit behind if you're kind
of there and the arena is called court signing, you can potentially pick up on things.
So it is helpful.
I think so.
Yeah.
I mean, again, if it improves you by like 0.5%, you're ROI, that becomes pretty meaningful
in the context of a sports bet.
Does ranked choice voting really matter?
Does it really matter in effecting outcomes?
It potentially can matter.
I mean, particularly you've seen candidates adopt different strategies for it by crossing
endorsing, for example, although I think I've kind of turned mildly anti R CV for a couple
of reasons.
Why?
One is it's not condors say optimal, right?
The order in which candidates are eliminated, hopefully I'm saying that name correctly,
right?
Yeah.
The order in which candidates are eliminated can affect who wins, like Brad Lander, for
example is kind of the compromise kind of between mom Donney and Cuomo and the New York
mayoral race.
It's plausible he would have won any head to head matchup, but he was eliminated third
from last or I guess second from last, so he didn't get it.
But what do you've had ahead to head matchup under a normal voting rule?
Well, I mean, it's plausible you could, I mean, I don't know, or the tradition, I guess
Trishnam run off wouldn't be like any better potentially.
No, I mean, fair enough, right?
You also almost had mom Donney wound up winning the first choice vote, although in in 2020,
one Eric Adams nearly lost to Captain Garcia despite being way ahead in the penultimate round
and Garcia nearly was eliminated by Maya Wiley and the round before that, right?
So it's more gameable than you might think.
Also like it takes a really long time to count the votes and all the tallies, right?
Like just yesterday, we're taping this.
What is it July 21st or yeah?
So three or four weeks after the election, you finally get the official tell you of how
all the ballots transferred, wound up not being that close, but like I think we need
it more of a norm in American elections toward counting votes within 24 to 48.
Because it was, right?
India does.
I was doing a little work on the Indian election, which was, which was fascinating in different
ways and they, you know, they have a physical polling place up in the Himalayas and things
like that.
I don't know.
How many languages they speak and how diverse never respect that country is and they
count their results very quickly.
We also have better exit polling in international countries where in the US, the exit
pollsters are trying to ask this like 100 item long, proper kind of political science,
like demographically weighted survey, right?
Whereas in Europe and Latin America places like that, which is like, we just want to know
who's going to win, right?
To make from work setting TV, it's like just that's the one question, who do you vote
for?
They do it in a very organized way and so exit polling is quite good in foreign countries
and quite bad elsewhere.
But yeah, I think, you know, I don't think I should be a Republican talking point that
we want, we want the vote counted quickly and not taking days and weeks.
And if you could wave a magic wand and bring proportional representation to the United
States at the national level, would you do it?
I think I, I'm a enough of a critic of the two major parties that I'd have to say, yes
for the most part, although I don't know.
I mean, you know, we have more veto points in the American system.
That's probably been good for capitalism and economic growth and maybe a certain type
of liberty.
I suppose, right?
I mean, I think a question I'd like to see addressed more, maybe there's some good
books is like, you know, I see the US and Europe as diverging more and more economically
Europe is getting longer and longer, life spans were not really right.
We still have fairly good economic growth and they don't really, how much of that is
kind of culture, but our Europeans have long life spans, right?
Well, so I'm so sure, Japanese American woman born in New Jersey isn't that the world's
longest lifespan.
It's pretty, I mean, New England is almost like Scandinavia or something, right?
I'm putting me like, you know, slightly boring in certain ways, right?
The foods a little, a little plain, but yeah, I'm a big proponent of like kind of New
England.
It's not where I want to live, but like New England exceptionalism, they did much better
under COVID.
I mean, Boston had a very big outbreak early, right, but like Vermont, New Hampshire,
Maine had much lower COVID cases than anywhere else by far in the United States, so they're
doing something clearly right.
If I look at some of the prediction markets at times, I've seen Trump at six to seven percent
likely to be the next Republican nominee to run for president.
Is that long shot bias that it's hard to show it in those markets?
Do you think it's the right number?
Is it just expressive better?
Who want to see Trump again?
And they're willing to lose some money to send that message?
What do you make of that?
So the prediction markets, and I consult for Polymarket, have gotten quite a lot better,
and they've gotten quite a lot more liquid, but you still see some obvious mispriceings
like Zoran actually had like a seven percent chance of becoming the Democratic nominee
when that market launched at Polymarket, and it was born in Uganda, so there's no work
around to that.
I don't think I think on the papal betting markets, they didn't have Pope Leo price higher
than one percent or things like that, and I think they got overconfident about us this
when they had like no inside knowledge and the outs of you is maybe only marginally useful
and things like that.
Look, I don't know.
Yeah, I mean, we talked a little bit before about like about how some of the kind of academic
historians, political scientists have kind of gotten enraptured by this anti-Trump thing,
and I do think this scenario where like Trump runs for a third term.
I mean, I don't say it's zero, right?
And I'd say if if it's two percent, then that's still alarmingly high, but it's probably
two and not six or seven.
I mean, you'd have to just totally, my question is in that world, are we even having
an election in the first place, right?
If you're just kind of flagrantly ignoring the Constitution that much, I mean, I think there
are what's common that weird non-democratic governments have elections of some kind, right?
Most of the even the Soviet Union had quote on quote elections.
They do, but like for that transition to occur in the U.S.
So, and also, Trump is not particularly popular.
His ratings kind of fell pretty fast early because of, I think, predominantly
terrorists and then recovered.
You know, they fall and again, I don't know how much of that is more terrorist versus,
you know, frankly, like the, the Epstein stuff, for example.
Yeah, a lot of the scenario, I mean, you know, it helps for populists to be popular.
We certainly have enough kind of checks and balances and the U.S. people are not being forced
to set information from, like, from anyone source and so yeah, I worry about a lot of things
with Trump.
That's probably not the foremost concern.
I've seen Steven Smith, the ESPN sports commentator.
You probably even know him, but as high as 9% in the market to be democratic nominee.
What do you think is actual numbers?
Maybe 2%, I think it's 4%, 5%.
Okay, I don't think it's crazy.
We had a draft of, like, the 20 most likely democratic nominees.
I think Steven Smith was like a 9th round draft pick, right?
And what does that scenario look like where he wins?
I think it's where Democrats feel really, well, the reason why I would not be as optimistic as you are,
right? It's I think that other people with the platform will emerge, right?
Like, I had not frankly heard of Zoran Muntani's name when we taped our last conversation a year ago.
When he might now be one of the five most recognizable names in the party, the fact that he's
from Uganda, prevents from running for president.
But like, but you'll see other people emerge.
I think there is probably some indication that you're going to have more energy on the left,
more energy for people who are kind of like explicitly partisan, maybe to the point of being like,
a little bit paranoid, even, right?
You have, you know, there is a little bit of election denialism among certain threads of Democrats.
For example, that Trump stole the election from Kamala Harris, it's, it's, you know, it's nascent
for now, but I think I think a partisan fighter and also, you know, you're filtering out.
I mean, you know, people get confused because they're like, okay, well, why is the Democratic
electorate? Because Kamu did very well, always in New York City when running statewide.
Hillary Clinton did very well in New York City. It kind of, kind of,
diverted Bernie Sanders' campaign in 2020. But like, it's because people in the center have like
migratory away from the Democratic Party. So you're having these two things that go on at once.
I do think there's a chance that Democrats will overestimate how tolerant the rest of the country
is for progressive governance. But, but with that said, I think JD Vance is also a pretty flawed
candidate. I think any other non-vance candidate is going to have a lot of trouble escaping the
shadow of Trump. So I regret Democrats like a, a 55, 45 favorite for, 28, pricing in some
chance, they'll nominate what I would think of as a suboptimal from an electoral standpoint,
can't it, right? I'm not telling anybody who they should nominate in terms of whose values they have,
you know, I think people neglect the importance of the primary system and the optionality
and the revealed preferences of voters. It is a pretty good proxy for running a general election
campaign is running a primary campaign that goes through all 50 states and you're raising
money, you're giving speeches, things like that. But yeah, I think the idea of like an
external savior who's a centrist is becoming a bit less likely than I would have thought a year
ago. Do you think the major tech companies have proprietary information where they can predict
elections better than anyone or anything? They may not even bother to do it, but is it there in principle?
I tend to doubt it. I mean, one nice thing about polling for all the flaws that polling has
and I think polling has, I wouldn't quite call it a crisis, but like on the route to a crisis,
as you do have a good baseline to compare with, right? You can say, we are going to go back to like,
you know, 1936. I think was the first time Gallup issued a presidential election poll and look
empirically at how accurate those polls are at extombs of days out from the election. Whereas it's
nothing to kind of calibrate AI type models, right? I mean, you know, you could probably predict
an individual voter will vote. So if they're gathering, I mean, the amount of things I tell,
but if you spent a lot of money and you have everyone's say Facebook posts and you just fed it
into a sufficiently complicated model, wouldn't that be the best predictive model?
Well, look, if I know you're just your name and your zip code, I can probably predict with 90
percent accuracy you're going to vote for, right? From the name you can infer gender, race, age,
and the zip code you can infer and for sure. I'm excited. That gets you pretty darn far. The issue
with elections is that like, is that the opera on this like 1 percent or 2 percent margin, you know,
the polls will have a disaster because one can get 51 percent instead of 47 percent. That's
still pretty good. If you're estimated how many jelly beans there are in a jar, you're like a 51
percent of them are purple and it's really 47. Then that's not too bad, right? But you need a lot of
precision for election polling and you have, and you have plenty of ways to get to a kind of
blunt approximate view. But I think those would not be any superior to the other ways, like polling
you have a prediction for most likely democratic party nominee. We may be doing another these in
three years, right? I, you know, I, AOC was the first pick in the draft. I did, and I think that would
be reinforced by the New York Merrill race. I mean, I think she's a very bright person who has
demonstrated some tact in certain areas. And look, again, I am not a socialist or democratic socialist,
right? But even I, as someone who likes seeing new faces in the parties, right? Who thinks who
had no affection for like the Clinton dynasty or the Cuomo dynasty or the, or the Biden's who can't
seem to stay out of the spotlight. And so I think she's, she's smart enough impression of
good enough on social media. And so, you know, no one's higher than like 15 percent. But if you
gave me a free bet, I think I'd pick her. Speaking of predictions, the year ago, we talked about
how long will it take AIs to be as good as human super forecasters? And you made a prediction
where you said at least 10 to 15 years. Yeah. Now a year later, do you want to revisit that and
revise? I think it's probably about right. I mean, I would say relative to a year ago, AIs about
at the 40th percentile of progress I would have expected. I'd be curious what you would think,
right? Well, a year ago, I said two to three years. Yeah. And right now, I'm going to say one to two
years, which is the same prediction. So I think you're your way too pessimistic in your time table.
It depends on kind of how competitive the exercise is, right? If it's like a, like a math Olympiad
tournament. So I knew they just did gold medal performance. I said this last year, I said in a year,
they're going to do gold medal. And a year ago, they weren't sure how many AIs were in the
word strawberry. I think you don't think on super forecasting, they can, I think it's very different
when you're dealing with a static problem is compared to a dynamic system where the
inputs are changing all the time. So currently the AIs labs are not the AIs labs,
but like the large language models are very bad, very, very bad at like poker. They're not trained
on poker data. I'm sure if you did train them, they're all these things called solvers that are
trained on poker data that do very well, right? But like they cannot quite impute the general
patterns just from mediocre text data or amateurish kind of hand announced. But if you probe them
on why they're bad, they're like, yeah, maybe it's tough for us when you have a complicated,
evolving kind of game theory dynamic and you have to develop exploitive strategies very
quickly. I mean, the amount of like, you know, it is amazing poker players where if you have a computer
solve a poker hand to get to one where there's enough loss minimization, it can take like,
you know, a very strong computer can take like minutes, right? Where a poker player makes those
calculations implicitly in a handful of seconds, for example. I worry with the math Olympiad
stuff. There's like a little bit of teaching to the test where because you kind of sent this
as the goal that a large language model should have that therefore there's a lot of prestige when
you meet that goal. But there's a teaching to the test what we should do even with humans in a sense,
right? Like the test is what you think is important and that's what you ought to teach. Well,
but like the poker example, right? Or chess. I mean, I think AI models are very poor at chess
from everything that I've heard, for example, but other AI models play chess. Great. Correct.
No, look, I mean, this gets me the question of like kind of like, what's it mean to be generally
intelligent? I mean, yeah, well, probably have like scaffolding of model on top of model
and you'll now like patch different things like right now. You can't really very effectively make
like a plain reservation using patchy PT, but I'm sure if you dedicate a resource to that,
then you have these agentic models now or agent models are just kind of like creeping into the system
a little bit. But like, but those will work in less than a year, I think. I mean,
there's an agentic model that's where I get to like, eight, eight kind of rough AGI versus
super intelligence, right? I am less convinced that we're going to have some intelligence
explosion than I would have been maybe. I don't think it was ever convinced of it, right? But like,
you know, this emergent super intelligence, where you train it on relatively simple data
and extrapolates beyond the data set. I mean, I think they do reason sometimes. I think they're
kind of quite smart. I know longer and like bashful about saying, oh, chatchipity thinks this.
You have to avoid that term think. But there's a big gap between like approximate general intelligence
for kind of desk jobs and then super intelligence on the one hand or then kind of AGI for physical
labor on the other hand. I think people are much too quick to make that leap. And I think
the math, the limpia and part because maybe the data, the answers are somewhere latent in the
training data. But even if they're not, I, you know, if you try to solve, which is a Lucas
critique, whatever else, right? It's a good question. A good question. A version of that, I think,
for AI models. My intuition is that if you took five super forecasters and just had the right
of five page prompt for GPT five, which will be out this summer, that we'd be there already.
I don't think it would be super intelligence. You could say it's not AGI. But the human super
forecasters, they're not that impressive, right? Like they're not Einstein's. They just have good
methods and they're disciplined. It requires so much on general knowledge. I think both general
knowledge, how the world works in here, risks. I think it might be a little tougher. I
know, I mean, can you train on a thought process? Like I try to do that in real life sometimes,
right? Like my partner is an artist and has a very good eye for art. And I don't, I maybe have
a B B plus, right? I kind of like train myself on him and say, what does he like in art? And so,
you know, but that probably cap, cap speed, like a B plus understanding potentially. And in markets,
you know, a B plus trader is often on the losing side of a trade. How good do you think you
could become it appreciating art? Let's say you put in two to three years, not full time,
but made it one of your two or three big things, you know, after basketball. I'd probably be
very studious about it. Look, I have confidence that like when I devote myself to things,
I can get kind of quite good at them. I think there's kind of no physical limitation there,
but still, I mean, look, you know, I have four or five hobbies that kind of occupy all my time,
so much of already become kind of professions, right? I think maybe architecture were in the silver
DNA. There's some architecture genes, we're related by, not by blood to Franklin Lloyd Wright,
right? My grandma was an architect, designed the home, my live-in part time now,
Westchester County, my uncle was an architect. So that would kind of be more the direction where
I would go out. I like things that are, are spatial. I'm a very good, like, spatial memory. If I
been to a restaurant before, even it was a different restaurant 10 years ago, I remember that space
very well, whereas art, I have just a, okay, I for it. Now, nine years ago, in a first conversation,
we discussed why more professional athletes had not come out as gay. And you and I both thought,
then, that over the forthcoming time period, more players from the NBA would come out as gay.
Yeah, I asked chat, GPT, they said Jason Collins came out 12 years ago, and since then, it's been
zero. Why is that? What did we get wrong? I mean, there's been a little bit more of a conservative
backlash in sports where you see kind of more out spoken Trump supporters, but that's very recent,
right? Where you have a nine-year period, there's 2020, the extremes of woke are part of this period.
Gay marriage is really quite solidified in American life and no one comes out. It is surprising,
I think, in a lot of way. You know, look, I am not so PC. I mean, there may be kind of like some
selection mechanisms. I don't necessarily know that their their genetic, but like maybe
it becomes easy for for gay people to like come out in high school and things like that,
they're attracted to fields apart from sports, even though, you know, gay men typically are
quite in shape and quite athletic relative to the straight man of the same demographic cohort,
otherwise, right? So it's not like a physical ability thing, but like, but selecting into sports,
it sports becomes more professional. I guess like not the right term at the high school level,
but like, you're tracked into like, you know, could prefer whatever, right? You know,
you didn't kind of spend all his high school in Maine. He went to Monteverdi Academy or wherever else
it was. And so if anything distracts you from that, whether it's kind of questions about your
identity or anything else, right? You kind of get off track, maybe it's a kind of harder to
make that up later on. GPT also claims that 44 players in the WNBA have come out of something other
than standard hetero. Yeah, it's a big gap, right? It's a it's a big gap for sure, right? And I went to
a, a like Caitlin Clark on the Indian in a fever against New York Liberty last year. The WMBA is
like fascinating, right? It's a very, very, very, very different demographic than like any sporting
event I've ever been at before. You know, I think it's kind of great. It's getting more cultural
salience, I think. Does bedding help it in relative terms? Two years ago, I had a really good
time bedding. The women's NCAA basketball tournament kind of before the markets had adapted,
but I think people figured out like, okay, these are pretty soft lines. And so yeah, no, I mean,
the issue is like in any type of bedding, if you're any good, you'll get limited if you have
repeated success or even, even waitress at look EV, plus EV to the casino, you'll also get
limited quite quickly. But yeah, probably like bedding, women's sports, probably is there's
probably some smart kid out there, some smart college kid who's going to make a lot of money,
bedding WMBA, women's college basketball, women's anything really. And he's building a model
or just using intuition or reading a lot on the internet, how have my D.B. doing that?
You know, my guess is the model combined with knowledge of the league can get you get you pretty
far. Like, you know, so injury data, for example, is much worse for women's sports and for men's
sports. They don't have the same reporting protocols. If you were, you know, for even for the
NCAA tournament, we actually were trying to use injury data in our women's NCAA model and like
you have to like do one by one individual Google searches for it, right? And so yeah,
there's still a reward to like having knowledge that nobody else has, right, or that
few other people have. And people are basically pretty lazy and don't necessarily do the
legwork on that. You mentioned Cooper flag before. As you know, he was drafted number one by the
Dallas Maverick. Yeah, who are quite a good team. And you have what you stood in Philly,
drafting two and three and the wizard straft number six. Yeah. Do we need to redesign the NBA
draft lottery? People complained before there was like too much tanking and now I guess they're
saying that it doesn't reward tanking teams enough. No, I think it's probably, it's probably
fairly optimal. I mean, this year was, was weird in the sense that like all the top three teams
are accomplished in certain ways, right? Or things going for them. But no, you know, I, you know,
I kind of like the always at the McZaren proposal for like the wheel where every team gets the
first pick once every 30 years. You kind of know ahead of time, which one it is. Yeah, I, I don't
like, I don't like incentivizing failure in any context. And I don't think fans mind like
rooting for leagues where one team is great. And the other's a perpetual underdog, right?
And the most popular sport in the world, of course, is soccer. And there, you know, you have
teams that are winning teams every year for a century almost in some cases. It doesn't even
bother people as much. It's, it's very weird how American sports, it's a cliche, a kind of socialist
and European sports are more capitalist, basically. Is there a crisis and NBA regular season
design? I had been kind of a naysayer of this a little bit until I watched this year's playoff
and kind of how much higher octane they were and how enjoyable it was to watch a game from from
start to finish. Look, I think it's a moving target. If you shorten this season to 66 games or 72,
people will still complain about about that being too many. And I used to live in your mess that's
where garden and they're, you know, for regular next game, they're the get-in price can be 200
bucks. I understand why they might not want to change it. But yeah, I think you probably want to go to
maybe not 66, maybe 72 or something like that and see how that goes. There were so many
decisive injuries this year. I forget the whole list. But it seems like almost half the important
players, including the seventh game of the finals, were decided in essence by injury.
Well, look, in every other sport, right? In football, you're only playing half the downs,
roughly, right? In hockey apart from the goalie, you're playing, you know, three or four lines
at shift, right? In baseball, you're only in the field half the time. The continuous strain on
NBA basketball played at such a high. I mean, it's totally different sport, right? You go back
and watch clips from like the 70s or the 80s. You know, like, it's a totally different sport.
I think so much better sport now. But like, I don't know, I mean, it sucks to see these guys,
like, you know, so Jason Tames is a very graceful player. Halibirds are a
rookie jerky, but has a certain grace in how he steps and like, yeah, I think the league
has to, I mean, you see that baseball too with like Tommy John surgeries and things like that and,
and, you know, there are always downsides to achieving optimization to a degree we didn't necessarily
expect and pushing things to the brain. Now, the equilibrium probably is that players always are
pushing things to the brain, right? They're very competitive. They're extremely well compensated,
right? There is appropriately demand for coaches and trainers and everything else for like,
for high effort, I think. You also have short-term incentive. Seems don't really care that much about
like what happens to their star players. He's on the end of his contract in theory. It might be happy.
Yeah, but I think you have to have. I think you probably have to trim a few games off schedule.
Or have something where maybe you say, okay, the individual player limit is 75 games, right?
Every player is guaranteed at least seven days rest. Maybe you are required to publish them
in advance. So if I'm going to see, Jonas, play from Milwaukee, I have no interesting
the books without Jonas and their current form. For example, maybe something like that could
be an intermediate step. Let's say you're advising LeBron James. And this coming here,
possibly is his last or certainly his next to last. The legers are not good enough to really go anywhere
in the next year. Probably you agree with that. But he has a signed contract for what about
$50 million. What do you advise LeBron? This is a human being. LeBron, what should you maximize?
What are you telling? LeBron's in a funny place because I think he's clearly
by the career metrics. Now the best NBA player of all time. I agree. I don't think he'll ever win
the hearts of people. I mean, you could argue LeBron was not as good as Jordan at the peak, right?
You could argue, Karim's peak was also higher, maybe very early in his career. So like,
there's kind of nothing LeBron could do sort of winning like three more titles that we're going to
put him ahead of Jordan in that conversation. And I want to go to a young team where I can win a
title. I mentioned some guys. I mean, go to the spurs. For example, that might make a lot of fun,
right? Please, they're not going to win a title with LeBron, not this year.
Oh, I think the spurs with LeBron James this year could potentially win a title. Really,
that would shock me. I would give that, I don't know, four or five percent. I mean, when
he is very, very good. I mean, he was playing at a level where there's this Darko NBA metric that
kind of tracks performance in real time, which is usually not irrelevant for like a 30-year-old
mid-career player, but for like someone like Victor is relevant. Like he was probably the
fifth best NBA player by the time he kind of shut down his season. With the chance that he's still
on the court by the end of the year. And as such a young player, you look at the other true
greats over time, Karim on something very early, but usually people need, you know, Michael Jordan
needed some years. I don't think Wendy and LeBron would be, and you know, and they have little,
no, I don't that, but I'd love to bet against them. Well, next year may be, right? They have
one more year, a maturity. They probably feel like maybe Dylan Harper's a positive value asset
at that point. And then LeBron can have his like, you know, Simon and I'm contracting in San Antonio.
Anyway, we know that's your advice. What do you think of the hypothesis that in the given season?
There's only a few teams that can win it all. And you know in advance who they are. So maybe last
year it was Boston, Oklahoma, possibly Denver. And you should just bet on this team.
Anything else is a true long shot? What do you think? Look, I think every basketball
fan believes in some like stylized version of that, but I think it's become like a little bit
overstated. Many of the teams now, you know, the nuggets, people, until Yokeh
was seen as like this ultimate beast of a postseason player. People were very skeptical about their
ability to describe the postseason right, you know, Toronto didn't fit the paradigm a couple of
years ago. Even Yonna said struggled in the postseason before they found success later on. So yeah,
look, you don't have that many years of relevant NBA history. I think people may be over indexed
a bit to like the the bulls and warriors dynasty. Why are the core young players of the wizards
mediocre as you suggested in a recent such that? I mean, they haven't had that many elite picks
in the in the most valuable drafts, right? I mean, they're probably doing okay. It was my kind
of I think co-authors saying that it were mediocre. Otherwise, I agreed with him to be fair.
Like caliber and it was what number 12, Steph Curry was number seven. I forget all the number,
you know, not everyone's a top pick who's great. I haven't looked at how persistent skill an NBA
draft thing is to me, it seems fairly persistent for San Antonio, okay, see to consistently pick
up players or even Miami. I mean, that seems to be a pretty consistent persistent skill set.
And what's your current update on the Philadelphia 76ers? You are kind of bullish last year
and I was down on them. Yeah, I want to claim victory on that one. Yeah, I mean, you know,
Darrell Moray, who have you had him on commercial with Tyler? No, but what do you do it?
Yeah, of course. Okay. There's a big geek. He loves chess. There's a lot of things like that.
He will tell you that like his strategies are very high variance, right?
You know, if MB does healthy and if Edgecom is goodness first year and if Paul George is, I mean,
they have like, you know, if they won 56 games next year, would it be 56 is a lot. 52, 53,
would that be shocking? I mean, not totally, right? The the the East is pretty wide open.
You know, they have this kind of like second timeline that now is a little bit more optimistic.
No, so we have this piece now. We're ranking all 30 NBA teams by their long-term
10 year chance winning a championship and they're right in the in the middle for me. I think like 15th out of 30.
Who are the most important mentors in your life, including for basketball? I mean, for sports
running in general, you know, Bill James as somebody who's a mentor, you know, I can say
what did you learn from him personally, other than reading? Which is a great writer.
Bill is kind of a kind of a wise ass, right? But like, but understanding that like
good writing about technical subjects can still be good writing period, that if you're like a,
you know, an 8 out of 10 is a writer and 8 out of 10 is like a statistician that might be more valuable
than being a 10 out of 10 in a 2 out of 10 in the other area, potentially in this area where we're
well, of substax and things like that. You know, Richard Taylor is somebody I got to know at Chicago
a little bit and someone I'd consider a mentor, you know, I've followed you for a long time,
Tyler as well, but yeah, you know, I'm also someone who's kind of it's a cliche, but kind of
always plays my own trail a little bit, you know, I think in terms of like election forecasting,
when there's some people, you know, Robert Erexon's professor at Columbia, who had kind of like
pretty good election models early on, but like, but in general, all this was done kind of badly,
and so I'm like, okay, the product I want doesn't exist, I'm going to have to go ahead and make
it myself. What do you feel you need mentors for now? I mean, I don't know if I have mentors for
as well. I just want people that are interested. Like, I need mentors to learn what's new in AI,
right? I can follow it myself, but I need a lot of help. Well, maybe mentor is not quite, you know,
for like AI stuff readings, v's at measurements, right? Like, yes, you know, he is a mentor for like
following AI developments, right? Because he's kind of very level headed about it, and very comprehensive
of help, right? Like, you know, a novel every week, basically on an AI. But he thinks it's going to
kill us all. That's funny. You would call him level headed. Yeah. I might think he's correct, but
you know, look, I do think that kind of the AI safety slash rationalist community. I mean, it is
it is kind of a bubble, right? If you go to like the manifest conference, for example, have you been
and no, but I know what it is. Yeah. How I put this like diplomatically, right? I've been around a
lot of weird, you see, people are weird, even relative to like the other weird people in that
cohort, I think, right? In ways that allow them to be kind of very experimental and
open-minded about everything from like, you know, polyamory to to whatever else. But like, I do
think they may be don't recognize a political constraints, be the kind of like adaptability
of human beings potentially, you know, see as I talked about before, kind of, I think it's not
at all obvious to me that you leap from rough AGI to comprehensive AGI and then to comprehensive
AGI for the physical realm and then to a SI, right? You know, I think the AI 2027 forecasters,
when I was at manifest, I said, okay, our timelines have moved out by a couple of years. That seemed
interesting, an interesting update for example. So I wrote a new preface to on the edge and I wrote
this back in, like a February and March, right? At a time when Elon had a lot of influence in the White
House, when they were pressing the accelerator on AI stuff more, when tariffs were going into a
effect, and I wrote, then that my, my P-Dume had increased relative to the book. You just don't think
it can be a super forecaster, but it can do us all in. Well, I worry about humans killing other
humans with AIs that make making weapons easier or certain types of terrorism, easier, right?
Or chemical compounds could be dangerous. I'm worried about, like, like, all of that wouldn't
be doomed. Those would be some bad events. Like, right now drones can be very bad and they are
every day. It clearly, look, we have not lived with techno. I mean, you've said before too, like,
we have not lived with nuclear weapons for that many generations, right? Yeah, like that's still a
little bit frightening. You get to get like kind of some of the Nick Boston stuff where
eventually, when we have some technology, we unfortunately invent more to asymmetric, where
anyone crazy person can, like, maybe destroy the world, if they get access to the right systems,
that can't be that well protected, and things like that. But, you know, look, in some ways,
I think the AIs are more human, like, than people expected, and that to me seems like a positive update.
If you think about the manifold types in terms of the framework in your book,
how they think about risk. Is there a common feature that they're more risk-averse,
or that they worry more? Is there a common feature that they like the idea that they hold
some kind of secret knowledge that other people do not have? How do you classify them?
They're just high in openness or what is it? They're high in openness to experience, right?
I think they're very high in conscientiousness. Are they? I don't know, some of them are,
some of them are, yeah. I think of them as high variance in conscientiousness.
The EAs are, and the rationalists are more high variance, I think. I think there can be,
like, a certain type of gullibility is one problem, right? I mean, you know, I think
obviously EA took a lot of hits for Sam McMahon free, but I think if anything,
they probably should have taken more reputational damage, right? That was really bad,
and there were a lot of signs of it and couldn't like, is there a reason with you and other people like that?
Yeah, because it contrasts with like poker players who have similar,
kind of phenotypes, right? But are much more suspicious and much more street smart. And, you know,
also, the Bay Area is weird. I feel like the West Coast is like diverging more from the rest of the
country. It's kind of like a long way, a long way away. Just the mannerisms are different, right?
You kind of like, small thing, right? You go to like a house party in the Bay Area, right? They're maybe not
being very much wine, for example, right? In New York, you know, the host isn't drinking,
then it would be considered sacralage not to have like plenty of booze at a party. Like,
little things like that, little cultural norms, you go to Seattle, it feels like Canada,
to me almost, and so, and so these things are diverging more. And why is belief and doom correlated with
practice of polyamory? And I think it is. I mean, if you ask, ALA, I guess you might say, well,
if we're all going to die or go to whatever singularity there is, right? We might as well have kind of like
fun in the meantime. There's like some of that, some of that kind of hedonism, although in general,
it's like not a super hedonistic movement. It seems to a conemistic to me. Like even I the economist,
I don't feel people think that a conemistically, there's more likely some psychological predisposition
toward both views. No, I guess you could argue that society would be better organized.
You know, in a more polyamorous relationship, people can do it implicitly in a lot of ways,
anyway, right? You know, including in like the LGBTQ community has different attitudes toward
it potentially. There's any, you know, if there's not as much childbearing that can have an effect
potentially. Yeah, but I think it's kind of like, you know, the not being constrained by the
arms society thing that is taken kind of very seriously in that group, right? There's enough kind
of disconnectedness and aloofness where they're able to kind of play it out and practice more.
That clips into a little bit into Silicon Valley too, which can be much more whimsical and
fanciful than like the Wall Street types I know, for example. Why can't Canada win the Stanley Cup?
I remember 1992 the last time. Is that correct? I remember I've forgotten when, running about this
in the New York Times in 2013, right? Yeah. And it's real true. Yeah, going to my one of
the favorites sports for us. I had the article print out in the bathroom. People see articles in
the bathroom while you're taking a shit, right? You can read some article. I read my own article in
bathroom. Look, tax laws matter a little bit, right? We're like Florida has no state income tax
and, you know, in a league with a salary cap. Actually, a good friend of mine is essentially
going to measure the floor to plant their sunny meta. And like, yeah, if you're making
de facto 10 or 15% more in a hard cap league, that matters quite if you're playing in Canada,
isn't your endorsement income higher, maybe? Or is that not true? It's a smaller market overall.
It's like kind of less wealthy than us, right? If you're a Canadian and a shell superstar playing
in in the US, like, you know, I don't think Sydney Crossview is any trouble. I kind of
is on Tim Horton's ads. Oh, whatever, right? Yeah, I don't know. Around the world, you know,
we used to talk about which countries are immune to the populist rights sentiment or whatever
you want to call it. Now, Japan is flirting with populist rights sentiment. Canada, not at the
national level, but it almost happened in some way with truck driver thing a couple years ago and
in Ottawa. Yeah. So what's your update since the last few times we've spoken is it's just going to
come everywhere? Is anywhere immune in Ireland? You see signs of it. They may not win the next
election, but it seemed to be totally absent a few years ago. Now, as you know, my Gregor is
running and I don't think a win, but I'll have some kind of impact. You know, I think parts of Europe
that are, and maybe Canada and the US may become more resistant to populist sentiment. For
example, right? I have a friend who is Irish, actually, and gay and moved here when he was 20.
He was like, when I was going up in Ireland, it was quite anti gay, right? It was a very religious
country. Now, it's like almost aggressively pro LGBT to plus right, I think. But it could be both.
As you know, the head of AFD in Germany, she's lesbian with the Sri Lankan partner. Is that correct?
Something like that. Yeah. So, but she's populist right and she is pro gay rights and openly and
proudly so. Look, I, I'm most of believe in kind of like thermostatic effects and politics where
people run the opposite direction of the kind of status quo more and more. I think there were reasons
why anti incumbent and populist spirit rose from the pandemic onward, but like, we might have been
at a high watermark for it potentially and in totally it seems we're not at a high watermark. It's
rising in quite a few other nations. I think that's something about kind of like Canada,
Western Europe, other high-income countries. Maybe I'm wrong. Something that's puzzled me and I've
even asked prime ministers this. I've never gotten a good answer. It seems to me really a lot of European
voters in some key nations want much lower immigration, whatever you and I might think. They clearly
want it and they don't get it. And the populist parties on their right continue to rise. Why don't
they get it? Why don't the centrist politicians and power just do something? Hold their noses if
they don't like doing it, but just do it and stay in office. I mean, you have some of that in Denmark,
for example, you've seen much less immigration, you know, even Justin Trudeau has somebody to
cut down the amount of legal immigration as well as illegal immigration. Yeah, I mean, the term
and he's not doing it, UK is not doing it. Ireland is not doing it. Netherlands is now doing it,
but it just seems to be a very slow process given how I think about democratic accountability
on most other issues. I mean, and the use to be aware of a strain of it on the left in the US,
right? We're like Bernie Sanders, for example, would have issues like immigration,
where he's a little bit more cautious, right? If you have a generous welfare state and emitting
somebody new to it is potentially going to cost everybody. Look, I think all this might reverse
within a few years where we kind of where the world realizes we have a shortage of young people
in general, a fertility crisis. If you want to call it that right and in aging the population
and we want to have like, you know, people who are willing to work hard and are skilled in
particular and so maybe they're kind of like skating to wear the puck is going. You know,
the US also has, I think, particularly efficient political outcomes in some ways, right? People
think for granted, the fact that like you have these coalitions that are 50, 50 approximately
very consistently that Trump remade the GOP in a lot of ways, but still every election is roughly
50, 50 with a different coalition than you had before. So maybe our electoral technology
is better, you know, we'll, you know, right now, America is quite pro immigrant compared to most
of the world and coming and because of backlash Trump becoming kind of at least nominally more
pro-immigrant. Again, it would have been, I'm not sure that's true, though. I know all the polls
that people say, but when I look at the electorate's willingness to tolerate, say, I expectivity,
my sense is they'll just put up with it. Look, I think the consensus is that we have some
some bad guys as Trump would call them and people are not particularly sympathetic to them. I think
people are broadly tolerant toward the migrant worker class for the most part. I think people are
broadly supportive of skilled immigration, people want more border enforcement. There is a
consensus there that kind of, the two parties can't seem to actually reach a consensus on,
but yeah, look, I agree with the polling issues a little bit, right? If you kind of like ask people,
how do you feel about this ten item list of questions, immigration, they'll kind of side with
the left and who do you like more? Trump or Democrats, they'll still say, we trust Trump a little
bit more. I mean, Democrats do this problem a little bit where, you know, you give them an inch
and they'll take a mile. I mean, I think people correctly are worried about those excesses,
where I think during COVID, for example, I was kind of very cautious in the first three months,
really, of COVID. I remember the first one went like outdoors to a restaurant. It was like June or
something, right? I was like terrified. I hadn't been around other people apart from a couple of friends
for being honest in months, right? But then you kind of realized that like half of the public health
people wanted no real socialization until we had vaccines and maybe not even after that, right?
And so, and so people are worried that like, if you kind of let press this in power, then things
do get taken too far, even though kind of nominally, the incremental set they might agree with it with
the liberal side. Two last questions. First, do you have a surprising prediction for the United States?
I mean, how long will the US last? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know if I have a prediction
there exactly. It's hard to have surprising predictions, Tyler. It is, but do you have a surprising
prediction for the NBA? I think the Lakers will do poorly this year. I'm not sure it's surprising,
but in my break you said the Lakers ranked relatively highly, actually. Yeah, our last session
you said Luca was properly rated. I now see his own team didn't want him. LeBron is not crazy
about having him around earlier, Jell and Bronson didn't want to play with them. To me, that's a lot
of negative information. So I think the Lakers will do poorly. I'm looking more kind of like a long-term
brand intangible, which I think does seem to matter a lot in the NBA. They have like new ownership
now that can spend all the luxury tax that they want. Look, when I saw Luca last year, he didn't
seem quite like himself, but it's actually a reason why you want to like, do you want to bet on like
the overachieving athlete? No, there are already overachieving, whereas like an athlete who is a
problem right as a drinking problem or not, having too many beers or being a little bit lazy,
he has much more potential to grow if he gets his act together. So like kind of fully healthy Luca
and you know, there are salad caps two questions pretty good and the long run could be a powerful
team. Larry Bird is an example on your side, but I tend to bet against such people mentally
when it comes to it. Maybe that's a difference between who are maximizing currently.
People who have some problem like they drink too much or they're not conscientious enough or
bad attitude. But you want, you want high variance here, right? You want high variance here and
and you know, maybe if Luca takes those epic, there's something that all of a sudden like you
have a liquor's championship. Again, a plug for the new paperback edition on the edge, the art
of risking everything and the final question is what will you be doing next? I'm working on an NFL
model currently. Yeah, I'm going to send you a book project. Tyler, because every day, even
days when you're struggling to ride or an interview doesn't come through whatever else, right? Like
having these big projects that I work on, I find to be very important. No one's stopping you. So what's
not going to be? Or you're still looking? I don't want to give, I have, I have, so first of all,
the newsletter, some of the bulletin did quite a bit better than I expected last year. So that's
kind of like the short term project. I have a couple of ideas for books when I write the next book,
which might be in a few years, right? And you know, I have ideas for books about sports. I don't
want to give away too much that might surprise people. Yeah, a little bit. You know, I kind of
still think of poker is a little bit of a project getting it's satisfying to be really good at
something like poker. But for now, the newsletter, building toward that is kind of the three and
a half year plan here and telling the next election, then maybe I finally won't
escape the election treadmill maybe after that. I said that every time, this might be the last
one 28 we'll see. Nate Silver, thank you very much. Thank you Tyler.
Thanks for listening to Conversations with Tyler. You can subscribe to the show on Apple Podcasts,
Spotify, or your favorite podcast app. If you like this podcast, please consider giving us a rating
and leaving a review. This helps other listeners find the show. On Twitter, I'm at Tyler Cowan
and the show is at Cowan Convoes. Until next time, please keep listening and learning.